

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs. 17.50  Postage  :  Rs. 7.50
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 01,  2006
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 29th August, 2006]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
NATIONAL  INSURANCE  TRUST  FUND
ACT,  NO . 28  OF  2006

<!-- page 2 -->

1National Insurance Trust Fund
Act, No. 28 of 2006
Short title.
[Certified on 29th August, 2006]
L. D.—O. 33/2006
A
N  ACT  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  A  FUND  CALLED  THE
N A TIONAL  INSURANCE  TRUST  FUND  AND  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  MATTERS
CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL  THERETO .
WHEREAS the Government has provided benefits and
safeguards to officers in the public service and provincial
public service against unforeseeable risks related to health,
personal accident and damage to properties inter alia through
a contributory insurance scheme operated by commercial
insurance organizations and other funds established for such
purpose :
AND WHEREAS the Government is also operating benefit
schemes and insurance schemes for the benefit of the more
vulnerable segments of society, including Samurdhi
beneficiaries, farmers, fishermen and persons engaged in self
employment :
AND WHEREAS the Government is desirous of streamlining
such insurance and such other benefit schemes and to that
end the Government intends to set up a National Insurance
Trust Fund in order to be able to provide the aforesaid facilities
in a more effective and co-ordinated manner whilst ensuring
maximum benefits to all persons eligible for benefits in terms
of this Act :
NOW THEREFORE, BE it enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :–
1. This Act may be cited as the National Insurance Trust
Fund Act, No. 28 of 2006.
2. The provisions of this Act shall apply in relation to—
(a) public officers;
Preamble.
Application of
this Act.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 National Insurance Trust Fund
Act, No. 28 of 2006
(b) persons retired from public office who are in receipt
of a pension from the government;
(c) officers of the provincial public service;
(d) persons retired from the provincial public service
who are in receipt of a pension from the respective
Provincial Council ;
(e) members of local government service;
(f) persons retired from the local government service
who are in receipt of a pension from the local
government service;
(g) persons receiving benefits under the Samurdhi
Authority Act, No. 30 of 1995;
(h) farmers, fishermen and persons engaged in self
employment ;
(i) needy persons or group of persons as may from time
to time be identified by the Minister by Order
published in the Gazette subject to any limitations
contained herein; and
(j) any property of the government which may be
identified from time to time by the Minister by Order
published in the Gazette.
PART I
E
STABLISHEMENT  OF  NATIONAL  INSURANCE  TRUST  FUND
3. There shall be established a Fund to be called the
National  Insurance Trust Fund (hereinafter referred to as
“the Fund”) from which benefits shall be paid to persons to
whom the provisions of this Act shall apply. There shall be
paid into the Fund such moneys as are specified in section 18.
Establishment
of the
National
Insurance
Trust Fund.

<!-- page 4 -->

3National Insurance Trust Fund
Act, No. 28 of 2006
4. (1) There shall be established a body called the National
Insurance Trust Fund Board (hereinafter referred to as “the
Board”) consisting of such persons as are specified in section 6.
(2) The Board shall, by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1), be a body corporate having perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in its
corporate name, and may perform such acts as bodies
corporate may by law perform.
5. (1) The Seal of the Board shall be in the custody of
such person as the Board may decide from time to time.
(2) The Seal of the Board may be altered in such manner
as may be determined by the Board.
(3) The Seal of the Board shall not be affixed to any
instrument or document except in the presence of the
Chairman of the Board, and one other member of the Board,
both of whom shall sign the instrument or document in token
of their presence :
Provided that where the Chairman is unable to be present
at the time when the Seal of the Board is affixed to any
instrument or document, any other member authorized in
writing by the Chairman in that behalf, shall be competent to
sign such instrument or document in accordance with the
preceding provisions of this subsection.
(4) The Board shall maintain a register of every instrument
or document to which the Seal of the Board is affixed.
6. (1) The Board shall consist of the following members
who shall be appointed by the Minister—
(a) an officer of the Ministry of the Minister to whom
the subject of Finance is assigned;
(b) the Chief Accountant of the Ministry of the Minister
to whom the subject of Finance is assigned;
Seal of the
Board.
Establishment of
the National
Insurance Trust
Fund Board.
Members of the
Board.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 National Insurance Trust Fund
Act, No. 28 of 2006
(c) an officer of the Ministry of the Minister to whom
the subject of Health is assigned;
(d) an officer from the Ministry of the Minister to whom
the subject of Public Administration is assigned;
and
(e) three persons to be nominated by the Minister from
among persons possessing qualifications or expertise
in the fields of finance, banking, insurance,
management or law.
(2) The Chairman of the Board shall be appointed by the
Minister.
7. (1) Every nominated member shall hold office for a
period of five years from the date of appointment, unless he
earlier vacates office by death resignation or removal.
(2) An nominated member may resign from his office by
written communication addressed to the Minister in that
regard.
(3) The Minister may by written communication
addressed to any nominated member, remove such member
from office for reasons assigned.
(4) A nominated member to whom a communication is
addressed under subsection (3), shall cease to hold office
with effect from such date as may be specified in such
communication.
(5) A nominated member who has been removed from
office shall not be eligible for re-appointment as a member of
the Board or to serve the Board in any other capacity.
(6) Upon any nominated member ceasing to hold office,
the Minister may appoint any other person to fill such
vacancy and such person shall hold office for the un-expired
period of the term of office of the member whom he succeeds.
Terms of office
of nominated
members.

<!-- page 6 -->

5National Insurance Trust Fund
Act, No. 28 of 2006
(7) Where any member is temporarily unable to perform
the duties of his office on account of ill health, absence from
Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister may appoint any
person to act in place of such member.
8. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed,
or from continuing, as a member if he—
(a) is a Member of Parliament, a member of a Provincial
Council or a member of a local Authority; or
(b) is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any other
country found or declared to be of unsound mind;
or
(c) is a person who, having been declared an insolvent
or a bankrupt under any law in Sri Lanka or in any
other country, or is an undischarged insolvent or
bankrupt; or
(d) is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonment
imposed by any Court in Sri Lanka or abroad.
9. No act or proceeding of the Board shall be invalid by
reason only of any vacancy among its members or any defect
in the appointment of any of its members.
10. The members of the Board may be remunerated in
such manner and shall carry out their functions subject to
such terms and conditions as may from time to time be
determined by the Board with the concurrence of the Minister
to whom the subject of Finance has been assigned.
11. (1) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the
Board may regulate its procedure in regard to the meetings of
the Board and the transaction of business at such meetings.
Vacancy among
members not to
invalidate acts
and proceedings
of the Board.
Disqualification
for being
appointed as a
member.
Remuneration
and terms and
conditions of
service of
members.
Meeting and
quorum at
meetings of the
Board.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 National Insurance Trust Fund
Act, No. 28 of 2006
(2) The quorum for a meeting of the Board shall be three
members.
12. The objectives of the Board shall be—
(a) to provide benefits and safeguards–
(i) to public officers, provincial public service
officers and local government service officers
and to persons retired from the public service,
the provincial public service and the local
government service, and who are presently in
receipt of a pension from the government, the
Provincial Council or the local government
service, as the case may be;
(ii) to Samurdhi beneficiaries and their families,
in terms of the Samurdhi Authority of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 30 of 1995 ;
(iii) to farmers, fishermen and persons engaged in
self employment ;
(iv) to the needy persons or groups of persons
identified by the Minister from time to time on
the recommendation of the Board,
against unforseen helath risks, personal accident and
damage to property through a contributory insurance
scheme to be operated by the Board. Different schemes
will be applicable in respect of the different categories
of beneficiaries. The matters applicable in respect of the
different schemes shall be prescribed ;
(b) to promote beneficiary participation in share
acquisition through the acquisition of equity
interests in any incorporated company whose
primary objective is to build dedicated wards for
The objectives of
the Board.

<!-- page 8 -->

7National Insurance Trust Fund
Act, No. 28 of 2006
the provision of better health facilities or where
available, to upgrade any wards presently providing
such facilities ;
(c) to guarantee loans of persons entitled to benefits
and safeguards under  this Act ;
(d) to provide guarantees in respect of any property or
category or class of property, of the government
which the Minister may from time to time identify
by Order published in the Gazette ; and
(e) to do all such other acts or things as may be necessary
for, or conducive to, the attainment of the objects
above.
13. In giving effect to the principles and provisions of
this Act, the Board—
(a) shall charge and receive all sums paid under this
Act as contributions by the Government, officers of
the public service and provincial public service and
pensioners of public service and provincial public
service Samurdhi beneficiaries, farmers, fishermen
and self-employees and other needy persons or
groups of persons, and any income from the
investment of moneys of the Fund and shall cause
such sums to be credited to the Fund;
(b) shall have custody of the moneys of the Fund;
(c) shall pay to the persons entitled to benefits under
this Act, such amounts as are due in terms of any
prescribed schemes ;
(d) may invest such of the moneys of the Fund as are
not immediately required for the purposes of this
Act in Government Bonds or Government Securities
or  in shares of any company incorporated primarily
to build or upgrade dedicated wards for the
provision of facilities envisaged in terms hereof;
Powers and
duties of the
Board.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 National Insurance Trust Fund
Act, No. 28 of 2006
(e) shall maintain a general account in respect of the
Fund and separate individual accounts in respect of
each member of the Fund;
(f) shall cause the books of accounts relating to the
Fund to be balanced as on the thirty-first day of
December in each year;
(g) shall cause to be prepared in respect of the Fund for
every financial year, a statement of receipts and
payments, a statement of income and expenditure, a
statement of assets and liabilities and a statement of
investments showing the face value, purchase price
and market value of each of the investments;
(h) shall transmit to the Minister a copy of each of the
statements prepared under paragraph (g) in respect
of each year before the thirtieth day of September of
the succeeding year;
(i) shall deduct from the income received from the
investment of moneys of the Fund in respect of each
year, the expenses incurred in that year by the Board
in the implemention of the provisions of this Act;
(j) shall have such other powers and duties in
connection with the Fund, not inconsistent with this
Act as are necessary for the implementation of the
above.
14. Every person who is—
(i) a public officer, provincial public service officer
or a local government service officer ; and
(ii) a person drawing a pension from the government,
a Provincial Council or the local government
service, as the case may be ; and
Contributions.

<!-- page 10 -->

9National Insurance Trust Fund
Act, No. 28 of 2006
(iii) a member of the Samurdhi Scheme, Farmers
Pensions Scheme, Fishermen’s Pension Scheme or
a self-employed person,
and who are persons entitled to benefits under the provisions
of this Act, shall pay to the Fund a contribution, in such sum
and at such times as may be specified by the Minister by
Order published in the Gazette.
15. The Board may utilize any money in the Fund for
the purpose of this Act—
(a) by investing in shares of any company incorporated
primarily to build or upgrade dedicated wards for the
provision of the facilites envisaged in this Act ; or
(b) in such government bonds or government securities
as may be approved by the Board.
16. (1) The Auditor-General shall in accordance with
the provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution audit the
accounts of the Board each year.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), the
Minister may, with the concurrence of the Minister to whom
the subject of Finance has been assigned, and in consultation
with the Auditor-General, appoint a qualified auditor or
auditors to audit the accounts of the  Board. Where such
appointment has been made by the Minister, the Auditor-
General may, in writing inform such auditor or auditors that
he proposes to utilize his or their services for the performance
and discharge of the Auditor-General’s duties and functions
in relation to the Board and thereupon such auditor or auditors
shall act under the direction and control of the Auditor-
General.
(3) (a) The Auditor-General may, for the purpose of
assisting him in the audit of the accounts of the Board,
employ the services of any qualified auditor or auditors who
shall act under his direction and control.
Audit of
accounts of the
Board.
Investments.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 National Insurance Trust Fund
Act, No. 28 of 2006
(b) If the Auditor-General is of opinion that it is necessary
to obtain assistance in the examination of any technical,
professional or scientific problem relevent to the audit of the
accounts of the Board, he may engage the services of–
(i) a person not being an employee of the Board ; or
(ii) any technical, professional or scientific institution
not being an institution which has any interest in
the management of the affairs of the Board,
and such person or institution shall act under his direction
and control.
(4) (a) The Auditor-General or any person authorized by
him shall, in the audit of the accounts of the Board, be
entitled–
(i) to have access to all books, records, returns and
other documents of the Board ;
(ii) to have access to stores and other property of the
Board ; and
(iii) to be furnished by the Board or its officers with
such information and explanations as may be
necessary for the performance of the audit of the
accounts of the Board.
(b) Every qualified auditor appointed to audit the accounts
of the Board or any person authorized by such auditor shall
be entitled to have like access, information and explanations
in relation to Board.
(5) Every qualified auditor appointed under the provisions
of subsection (2) shall submit his report to the Minister and
also submit a copy thereof to the Auditor-General.

<!-- page 12 -->

11National Insurance Trust Fund
Act, No. 28 of 2006
(6) For the purposes of this section, the expression
“qualified auditor” means–
(a) an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an accountant, issued by
the Council of such  Institute ; or
(b) a firm of accountants each of the resident partners of
which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practice
as an accountant, issued by the Council of such
Institute.
(7) The Auditor-General shall forward his report to the
Board.
17. The Board shall annually prepare a report of the
work of the Board and forward such report together with the
report of the Auditor-General, before the lapse of the year
succeeding the year to which such reports relate, to the
Minister who shall table such reports in Parliament.
18. (1) There shall be paid into the Fund—
(a) such sums of money out of the Consolidated Fund
as may be determined by resolution of Parliament
for defraying–
(i) all expenditure, including capital
expenditure, incurred by the Board in carrying
out the provisions of this Act during the period
of twelve months commencing on the date of
coming into operation of this Act ; and
(ii) all capital expenditure incurred by the Board
in carrying out the provisions of this Act
during the period of twenty-four months
Annual report of
work.
Payments into the
Fund.

<!-- page 13 -->

12 National Insurance Trust Fund
Act, No. 28 of 2006
commencing on the day immediately
succeeding the date of the termination of the
period referred to in paragraph (a) of this
subsection ;
(b) all monies  lying to the credit of the Samurdhi Social
Development Trust Fund created by Trust Deed No.
1538 of October 19, 2005 ;
(c) all monies  lying to the  credit of the Strike, Riot and
Civil Commotion and Terrorism Fund  established
in terms of the Cabinet Decision of November 18,
1987, in Account No. 014-1-001-1-1194790 at the
Peoples Bank, Union Place Account and No.
0000001829 at the Bank of Ceylon, Corporate
Branch ;
(d) all sums of money presently being deducted from
the salary of public servants for the Agrahara
Insurance Scheme established by Public
Administration Circular No. 5/97 of January 31,
1977 and deposited by the Insurance Corporation
of Sri Lanka in the Deputy Secretary’s Account titled
“Government Employees Insurance Account 4225”
at the Central Bank of Sri Lanka ;
(e) the contributions received in terms of section 14
and section 20 of the Act, from every-
(i) public officer, provincial public service officer
and local government service officer ; and
(ii)person drawing a pension from the
government, a Provincial Council or the local
government service, as the case may be ; and
(iii) every member of the Samurdhi Scheme, the
Farmers Pensions and social security benefits
Scheme, the Fishermen’s Pension Scheme and
every self-employed person ;

<!-- page 14 -->

13National Insurance Trust Fund
Act, No. 28 of 2006
(2) Every sum paid out of the Consolidated Fund under
paragraph (a) of subsection (1) shall constitute a loan from
the Government to the Board and shall be repaid in accordance
with such terms and conditions as may from time to time be
determined by the Minister.
19. There shall be paid out of the Fund —
(a) all moneys required for settlement of expenses in
respect of persons entitled to benefits under this
Act, being treated at dedicated wards of hospitals ;
(b) all expenses incurred for treatment of critical illness
and treatment at a hospital where such treatment is
availabe, to persons entitled to benefits under this
Act, in accordance with such rates as shall be
prescribed ;
(c) all expenses in cases of death due to accident
occurring in connection with the occupation of the
person entitled to benefits under this Act, provided
that the death occurs before the age of retirement, in
accordance with such rates as shall be prescribed :
Provided that, in the case of death occurring after
the date of retirement, no payment of any benefit
shall be made to the dependants.
20. All persons to whom the Act applies and who are
entitled to receive benefits in terms of this Act, shall be liable
to pay in respect of the benefits they will receive in terms of
this Act, a monthly contribution in such amount as may be
specified by the Minister by Order published in the Gazette
which contribution shall be credited to the fund, Such
contribution shall be deductible  from the salary, pension,
Samurdhi benefit or other benefit, as the case may be, which
such eligible person receives from the government or the
Provincial Council or other source, respectively.
Payments out of
the Fund.
Collection of
contributions
from persons to
whom the Act
applies.

<!-- page 15 -->

14 National Insurance Trust Fund
Act, No. 28 of 2006
PART II
STAFF  OF  THE  BOARD
21. (1) The Board may appoint such other officers and
servants as it considers necessary for the efficient discharge
of its functions.
(2) The officers and servants appointed under subsection
(1) shall be remunerated in such manner and at such rates and
shall be subject to such conditions of service as may be
determined by the Board.
(3) At the request of the Board, any officer in the public
service may, with the consent of that officer and the Secretary
to the Ministry of the minister to whom  the subject of Public
Administration has been assigned, be temporarily appointed
to the staff of the Board for such period as may be determined
by the Board, or with like consent be permanently appointed
to such staff.
(4) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Board, the provisions of
subsection (2) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to and in relation to him.
(5) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Board, the provisions of
subsection (3) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to and in relation to him.
(6) Where the Board employs any person who has agreed
to serve the Government for a specified period, any period of
service to the Board by that person shall be regarded as service
to the Government for the purpose of discharging the
obligations of such agreement.
Appointment
of officers
and servants.

<!-- page 16 -->

15National Insurance Trust Fund
Act, No. 28 of 2006
(7) At the request of the Board any member of the Local
Government Service or any other officer or servant of a local
authority, may, with the consent of such member, officer or
servant and the Local Government Service Advisory Board,
or the local authority, as the case may be, be temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Board for such period as may be
determined by the Board or with like consent be permanently
appointed to such staff on such terms and conditions
including those relating to pension or provident fund rights
as may be agreed upon by the Board and the Local
Government Service Board or that local authority as the case
may be.
(8) At the request of the Board any officer or servant of a
public corporation may, with the consent of such officer or
servant, be temporarily appointed to the staff of the Board for
such period as may be determined by the Board, or  with like
consent, be permanently appointed to such staff on such terms
and conditions including those relating to pension and
provident fund rights, as may be agreed upon by the Board
and the said public corporation.
(9) Where any person is temporarily appointed to the staff
of the Board in pursuance of subsection (7) or subsection (8),
such person shall be subject to the same disciplinary control
as any other member of such staff.
PART III
M
ISCELLANEOUS
22. The Board or any officer authorized by the Board
may direct an employer to furnish to the Board or such officer
before a date specified in the direction,-
(a) a return containing such particulars in respect of all
or any of the employees of that employer as may be
specified in the direction;
Board or officer
authorized by it
to issue
directions to
employer.

<!-- page 17 -->

16 National Insurance Trust Fund
Act, No. 28 of 2006
(b) such information or explanation in respect of any
particulars stated in any return furnished by that
employer as may be specified  in the direction; and
(c) a true copy of any register required by this Act to be
kept by that employer or any part of such register.
23. Any member of the Board or any officer authorized
in that behalf by the Board in writing, for the purposes of this
Act may-
(a) enter and inspect at all reasonable hours by day or
by night, any premises or place, for examining any
register or record relating to the earnings of any
employee ;
(b) take copies of any such register or record or part
thereof ;
(c) examine any person whom he has reasonable cause
to believe is an employer or any employee ; and
(d) examine any records or other documents relating to
contributions to any provident fund.
24. Every person who—
(a) contravenes or fails to comply with any of the
provisions of this Act or any  regulations  made
thereunder ; or
(b) makes default in complying with any direction or
order made or given under this Act ; or
(c) knowingly furnishes or causes to be furnished any
false return, or information required to be furnished
under this Act,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction before a
Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding one thousand
rupees or to imprisonment of either description for a term not
exceeding six months, or to both such fine and imprisonment.
Offences and
penalties.
Powers of
members of
the board or
authorized
officer to
inspect
premises &c.

<!-- page 18 -->

17National Insurance Trust Fund
Act, No. 28 of 2006
25. Where any offence under this Act is committed by a
body of persons, then-
(a) if that body of persons is a body corporate, every
director and officer of that body corporate ; or
(b) if that body of persons is a firm, every partner of that
firm ; or
(c) if that body of persons is a trade union, every officer
of that trade union ; or
(d) if that body of persons is an unincorporated body,
the President, Manager, Secretary and every other
officer of that unincorporated body,
shall be deemed to be guilty of such offence :
Provided that no such person shall be deemed to be guilty
of such offence if he proves that such offence was committed
without his knowledge or that he exercised due diligence to
prevent the commission of such offence.
26. No prosecution for an offence under this Act shall be
instituted except by or with the written sanction of the Board.
27. No prosecution instituted under this Act against any
person for any offence under this Act shall be a bar to any
civil action brought against such person in respect of any
matter arising out of this Act.
28. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
all matters which are stated or required by this Act to be
prescribed or in respect of all matters for which regulations
are required or authorized to be made by this Act.
Liability of
certain persons
in respect of
offences
committed by
bodies corporate
or
unincorporated.
No prosecution
for an offence to
be instituted
without the
sanction of the
Board.
Prosecution
under this Act no
bar to a civil
action.
Regulations.

<!-- page 19 -->

18 National Insurance Trust Fund
Act, No. 28 of 2006
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers under
subsection (1), the Minister may make regulations in respect
of all or any of the following :–
(a) matters connected with or incidental to the
procedure to be followed in the collection of
contributions and other payments under this Act ;
(b) specifying the criteria to be adhered to in
determining the different categories of persons who
will be beneficiaries under this Act ;
(c) specifying the different types of schemes applicable
to the different categories of persons entitled to
benefits under this Act and the different rates payable
to such persons as benefits in terms of this Act ;
(d) specifying the forms and other documents which
may be required for the purpose of administration
of the Fund ;
(e) specifying the manner of making a refund of any
sum paid in error to or by the Fund ;
(f) making provision setting out the manner whereby a
person can be appointed to exercise, on behalf of a
claimant to any benefit under this Act who is a child
or who may be unable for the time being to so act,
any right which the claimant may be entitled to
exercise under this Act, and for authorizing a person
so appointed to receive and deal with such benefit
to which a claimant is entitled ;
(g) the manner of giving notice for the suspension of
the grant of any benefit under this Act pending the
review by the Court of Appeal, of the determination
upon the claim to such benefit or any appeal under
this Act ;

<!-- page 20 -->

19National Insurance Trust Fund
Act, No. 28 of 2006
(h) setting out guidelines for treating any sum originally
paid to any person under a determination made under
this Act or by virtue of the provisions of any
regulation, in circumstances—
(i) where it is subsequently decided that such
sum was not payable, as having been properly
paid; and
(ii)where it is subsequently decided that such
sum has been improperly paid,
for the recovery of the aforesaid sum from such person
or fund as the case may be;
(i) specifying the allowances to be paid to officers and
servants employed in carrying out the provisions of
this Act and the method of computing such
allowances.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minster under
subsection (1) shall be published in the Gazette and shall
come into operation upon such publication or on such later
date as may be specified in the regulation.
(4) Every regulation made by the Minister under
subsection (1) shall as soon as convenient after its publication
in the Gazette, be brought before Parliament for approval.
Any regulation which is not so approved shall be deemed to
be rescinded from the date of such disapproval but without
prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.
(5) Notice of the date on which a regulation is so rescinded
shall be published in the Gazette.
29. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 21 -->

20 National Insurance Trust Fund
Act, No. 28 of 2006
30. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
“dedicated wards” mean wards identified or established
in specified hospitals for the purpose of providing
health care and nursing to persons entitled to
receive benefits under this Act.
“farmer” means a farmer who has joined the benefit
scheme in terms of the Farmers’ Pension and Social
Security Benefits Scheme Act, No. 12 of 1987 ;
“fisherman” means a person who is engaged in fishing
as a livelihood ;
“local government service member” means an person
who is or who is deemed to be a member of the
local governments service constituted under the
Local Goverment Service Act, No. 16 of 1974 ;
“local government service pensioner” means a person
retired from the local government service and who
is in receipt of a pension in respect of such service ;
“provincial public service officer” means a person
employed in the provincial public service of a
Province in terms of the Provincial Councils Act,
No. 42 of 1987 ;
“provincial public service pensioner” means a person
retired from the service of the provincial public
service and who is in receipt of a pension from a
Provincial Council ;
“public officer” means a public officer who is in service
and is under sixty years of age ;
“public service pensioner”  means a public officer who
has retired from service and is in receipt of a
pension from the government;
Interpretation.

<!-- page 22 -->

21National Insurance Trust Fund
Act, No. 28 of 2006
“Samurdhi beneficiary” means a person entitled to
receive benefits in terms of the Samurdhi Authority
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 30 of 1995 and includes the
family of such beneficary ; and
“self employed person” means a person who is engaged
in carrying out a livelihood by himself.

<!-- page 23 -->

22 National Insurance Trust Fund
Act, No. 28 of 2006
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS
H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.