

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs. 8.25  Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 22,  2006
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 21st December, 2006]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
DHARMAYATHANA CONSERV ATION
SOCIETY (INCORPORATION)
ACT,  NO . 53  OF  2006

<!-- page 2 -->

Dharmayathana Conservation Society
(Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 2006
1
Short title.
Incorporation
of the
Dharmayathana
Conservation
Society.
[Certified on 21st December, 2006]
L. D. O. (Inc) 13/2005
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORA TE  THE  DHARMAY ATHANA
CONSERV ATION  SOCIETY
WHEREAS a Society called and known as the
“Dharmayathana Conservation Society” has heretofore been
established  at Colombo in Sri Lanka, for the purpose of
effectually carrying out and transacting all objects and matters
connected with the said Society according to the rules agreed
to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Society has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted several objects and matters for
which it was established and has applied to be incorporated,
and it will be for the public advantage to grant the
application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1.  This Act may be cited as the Dharmayathana
Conservation Society (Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 2006.
2. From  and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as presently are members of the
Dharmayathana Conservation Society (hereinafter referred
to as the “Society”) or shall hereafter be admitted members of
the Corporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporate
with perpetual succession under the name and style of the
“Dharmayathana Conservation Society”, (hereinafter referred
to as the “Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be
sued in all Courts with full power and authority to have and
use a common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects of the Corporation is constituted
are hereby declared to be,—
(a) to implement projects for the development and
promotion of national, religious and cultural
activities ;
Preamble.
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Dharmayathana Conservation Society
(Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 2006
(b) to maintain and develop the Dharmayathana and to
protect and preserve the image of the Aukana Buddha
Statue at Bauddhaloka Mawatha, Colombo ;
(c) to preserve and foster the Buddhist philosophy and
the Buddhist way of life ;
(d) to maintain the “Lakviru Sevana” house situated at
No. 48, Bodhirukkarama Road, Wellawatte ;
(e) to provide assistance to the poor, destitute, disabled
and malnourished Buddhist children ;
(f) to construct rests for the Buddhist clergy and laymen
in the capital city ;
(g) to establish and maintain book shops and library
services ;
(h) to hold dhamma preachings and discussions in
Sinhala, Tamil and English languages and to
broadcast the same through the electronic media ;
(i) to publish books, magazines and leaflets on
Buddhism in Sinhala, Tamil, English and other
languages deirable for the national and religious
development;
(j) to conserve and exhibit the antiquities and the
monuments of heroes ;
(k) to establish and maintain social welfare centres for
Buddhist who are destitute and old ;
(l) to establish institutions to provide training on
computer and mass media to the Buddhist Priests,
Damma School Teachers’ and students ;

<!-- page 4 -->

Dharmayathana Conservation Society
(Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 2006
3
 
(m ) to establish a vocational training Centre to provide
vocational training to the destitute and poor
Buddhist youths and to establish a Day Care Centre
and a Child Development Centre for Buddhist
Children; and
(n) to establish friendly relations with other Buddhist
organizations and Social Service Organizations both
in Sri Lanka and abroad.
4. (1) The management, control and administration of
the affairs of Corporation shall, subject to the rules of the
Corporation, be vested in an Administrative Council
(hereinafter referred to as the “Council”) consisting of such
number of office bearers elected from among the members in
accordance with the rules of the Corporation to be made in
accordance with the rules made under section 7 of this Act.
(2) The first Council of the Corporation shall be the
Administrative Council of the Society, holding office on the
day preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
subsection (1) V en. Elle Gunawansa Thero, the Founder of
the Dharmayathanya shall be the first Chairman of the
Corporation.
5. The Council shall maintain a register of members in
which every person who on the day preceding the date of
commencement of this Act is a member of the Society and
every person duly admitted a member of the Corporation
shall have his name inscribed.
6. Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power—
(a) to take and held land or buildings by way of
acquisition, purchase, rent, construct and otherwise
for the purposes of the Corporation ;
Managemment
of the affairs of
the Corporation
Powers of the
Corporation.
Register of
Members.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Dharmayathana Conservation Society
(Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 2006
(b) to borrow or raise money for the purposes of the
Corporation ;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate, maintain and close bank
accounts for the purposes of the Corporation;
(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for the
purposes of the Corporation, in such a manner as
the Council may think fit ;
(e) to solicit and receive subscriptions, grants, donations
and gifts of all kinds ;
(f) to enter into agreements or contracts with any person,
company or body of persons ;
(g) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and
administer any lawful trusts and conditions affecting
any real or personal property ;
(h) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and to
pay them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as
may be determined by the Corporation ;
(i) to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for the
purposes of the Corporation; and
(j) to do all other acts as are conducive or incidental to
the attainment of all or any of the above objects.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time at any Annual General meeting of the Corporation and
by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Dharmayathana Conservation Society
(Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 2006
5
present and voting to make rules not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for any one of
the following matters :—
(a) the classification of membership, fees payable by
each class of members, their admission, expulsion
or resignation ;
(b) the election of office-bearers, the resignation from,
or vacation of or removal from office of office-bearers
and their powers, conduct and duties and function;
(c) the powers, conduct and duties and functions of the
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation ;
(d) the procedure to be observed at the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and of the
Council, the time, place, notice and agenda of such
meetings, the quorum thereof and the conduct of
business thereat ;
(e) the qualifications and disqualifications for
membership of the Council and of the Corporation ;
(f) the adminstration and management of the property
of the Corporation ; and
(g) generally for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) The rules of the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to, or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Dharmayathana Conservation Society
(Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 2006
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gifts,
grants, bequest, testamentary disposition, donations,
subscriptions, contribution and fees shall be  deposited to
the credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as may be
decided by the Council.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions under this Act.
(3) The Corporation may create any depreciation fund,
reserve or sinking fund for the rehabilitation, improvement
and development of the property of the Corporation.
(4) The moneys and property of the Corporation however
derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of its
objects and no portion thereof shall be paid or transferred
directly or indirectly by way of dividends, bones or otherwise
by way of profit to any member of the Corporation.
9. (1) The financial year of the Corporation  shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor of the Corporation.
(4) In this section, “qualified auditor” means —
(i) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the council of such Institute; or
Accounts and
Auditing.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

Dharmayathana Conservation Society
(Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 2006
7
(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the council
of such Institute.
10. All debts and liabilities of the Society  on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall be
paid to the Corporation hereby constituted, and all debts due
to, and subscriptions and contributions payable to the  Society
on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act.
11. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, upon
or by virtue of any instrument of purchase, grant, gift or lease
or upon or by virtue of any testamentary disposition or
otherwise, and all such property shall be held by the
Corporation for the purposes of this Act, and subject to the
rules  of the Corporation, to be made in accordance with section
7 of this Act with full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange,
or otherwise dispose of, encumber or charge the same.
12. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of a
member of the Council and the Secretary or such other person
duly authorized by the  Council who shall sign their names
to the insturment in token of their presence and such signing
shall be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
13. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation, or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of such membership fees as may be
due from him to the Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Society.
Corporation may
hold property
movable or
immovable.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Limitation of
liability of
Members.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Dharmayathana Conservation Society
(Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 2006
14. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to an institution or institutions having
objects similar to the objects of the Corporation and which is
or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing any
income or property, among its or their members. Such
institution or institutions shall be determined by the members
of the Corporation at or immediately before the time of the
dissolution of the Corporation.
15. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or any body corporate or any other
persons.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Property
remaining on
dissolution of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 10 -->

Dharmayathana Conservation Society
(Incorporation) Act, No. 53 of 2006
9
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS
H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.