

<!-- page 1 -->

195 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.03.2007
195
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 198
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 201
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 16th March, 2007, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 2nd March, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
¡â¤ 1 ,488 _ 2007 ˜åÚ”º  09 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2007 .03.09
No. 1,488 – FRIDAY , MARCH 09, 2007
N.B.— Part  IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,487 of 02.03.2007 was not published.
N.B.— Quarterly statement of books for July — September 2001 has been published in Part V of this Gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.03.2007
196
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

197 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.03.2007
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.03.2007
198
Posts - Vacant
SRI  LANKA  POLICE  DEPARTMENT
V acancies in the Post of Police Constable (Mechanic)
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka for post
of Police Constable (Mechanic) in the Sri Lanka Police Department.
2. Application forms duly perfected in accordance with the
specimen form given below, should be sent to director (Recruitment)
Recruiting Office, 2nd Floor, New Secretariat Building, Colombo 01.
The applications should be sent by registered post to the above
mentioned address to reach on or before 09th April, 2007 and the
top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing applications should be
marked “Police Constable (Mechanic)”.  Delayed applications will
be rejected and no applications will be issued by the Sri Lanka Police
Department.
Serial Professional Professional Qualification
No. and Experiences
01. Motor Mechanic See Para 04 c
02. Electrician See Para 04 c
03. Tinkering Mechanic See Para 04 c
04. Lathe Machine Operator See Para 04 c
05. Motor Bike Mechanic See Para 04 c
06. Cushion  Maker Certificate of two years
experience from
Government or from
a recognized Institution.
07 Painter See Para 04 c
08. Tyre Changer Certificate of two years
experience from
Government or from a
recognized Institution.
09. Servicemen Certificate of two years
experience from
Government or from a
recognize institution.
10. Battery Mechanic Certificate of two years
experience from
Government or from a
recognize institution.
11. Air Conditioner Operator See Para 04 c
12. Injector operator See Para 04 c
13. Welding Mechanic See Para 04 c
3. Salary Scale.— Police Constable (Mechanic) : Rs. 166,560 -
7x1440 - 27x1800 - Rs. 225,240.
In addition to the above salary scale, they will be paid following
allowances a monthly :
(a) Special arduous duty allowances :
(i) For duties in operational area - Rs. 1,200
(ii)For duties in non operational area - Rs. 600 ;
(b) Combined allowance :
(i) For duties in operational area - Rs. 10,500
(ii)For duties in nonoperational area - Rs. 3,500
(a) Free Transport facilities :
(b) Free Medical facilities to officers ;
(Financial assistance can be obtained for medical treatment
even in a foreign country) ;
(c) All uniforms will be provided free of charge ;
(d) Facilities to improve skills and talents in sports Facilities to
improve skills and talents in sports.
(e) Traveling expenses for duty and money will be granted as
rewards for outstanding and arduous duties.
4. Basic Qualifications Required :
(a) Age Limit.— The age should be between 18 and 30 years as
at closing date as per the Gazette Notifications.
(b) Educational Qualifications.— Applicant should have passed
the G.C.E. (O/L) examination in 06 subjects at one sitting
with Medium Language and Mathematics.
Note 01.— According to the classification of subjects of the
Department of Examinations, in calculating the number
of subjects passed at G.C.E. (O/L) both passes in
science subjects number 41 and 44 will be treated as
one subject and both passes in Mathematics number
42 and 45 will be treated as one subject. (They can’t be
considered as four separate subjects taking into account
the number of subjects passed.).
Note 02.— Failure in the Technical subject at Written Test of  G.C.E.
(O/L) examination will be considered as failure in the
same subject although a pass has been obtained for the
same in the Practical test.
Note 03.— Since optional subjects of Tamil, English and Sinhala
have not been included in the stream of  (G.C.E. (O/L)
passes in any of these subjects will not be computed as
a pass in the G.C.E. (O/L) examination.
(c )Professional Qualifications :
* One year experience certificate of the profession
concerned obtained from the government or from a
Government recognized Technical or V ocational
Institute ;
or
* One year training certificate of the profession concerned
obtained from an Institution functioning under the
National Apprentice Board approved by the
Government.

<!-- page 5 -->

199 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.03.2007
* An Experience Certificate issued by the State Institution
or an Institution approved by the State for one year.
* Passing mechanical Science as a subject in the G.C.E.
(O/L) Examination will be added qualification.
(d ) Physical requirements :
 (i) Height 5 feet 04 inches (minimum) ;
(ii)Chest 30 inches minimum (deflated).
Note.— Applicants who are slightly short of the physical
requirements but fulfill the other stipulated qualifications
will be eligible at the discretion of Inspector General of
Police provided they have skills in sports or have achieved
best performance in sports at National level or they have
earned reputation for Sri Lanka by participating in an
international competition.
(e) Visual requirements :
Vision should not be less than 6/12 with each eye. if the
vision is 6/6 with one eye and 6/18 with the other eye will
be accepted. Colour vision should be normal. Applicants
wearing spectacles or contact lenses will not be eligible.
(f) Other Qualifications :
(a) Applicants should be unmarried. (even devorced, it
would be treated as married). This condition will not
be applicable for officers who presently server in the
Police Department and who have fulfill the
qualification ;
(b) special attention would be paid to those who in addi-
tion to the aforesaid basic qualifications, physical quali-
fications, age Limit, with sports and other special quali-
fication ;
(c ) Prior to the final Selection board, a selection test will
be conducted by the police Department. Candidates
are requied to obtain a  pass  in basics qualifications,
enturance test, and professional qualification.
(d) Those who pass the endurance test will be summoned
for practical test and interview ;
(e) Professional test will be conducted by oral and written,
Candidates will be tested on the profession applied
for, maintenance of vehicles and overhauling of vehicle.
(f) A background inquiry on the selected applicants will
be conducted. Applicants with good conduct only will
be selected.
5. Conditions of Appointment .— This appointment is permanent
and pensionable. Contribution has to be made towards the widows/
widowers orphans pension scheme.
6. Conditions of Service :
(i) This appointment is subject to a period of probation for
three years.
(ii)The applicant should abide by any regulation already in
force enforce or which will be issued from time to time by
the Government for implementation of the official language
Policy.
(iii)  They should be subject to the regulations given in the first
and second volume of the Establishment Code.  Police
Disciplinary Code and any other regulation issued from
time to time by the Inspector General of Police or by the
Government ;
(iv) Every officer should pass the  Departmental all examination
specified, prior to their confirmation in the post. Those
who fail to pass the specified examination or those deemed
to be unfit for Police duties are liable to be removed from
service ;
(v) The appointees will be not permitted to marry until they
are confirmed in their posts. However, in terms of the
notification 41 of the Police Gazette II dated 28th February,
1973, the officers who have completed a minimum period
of two years satisfactory service could get married on the
permission granted by the Inspector General of Police,
under special circumstances.
(vi) Applicants on being recruited should serve a probationary
period of three years in the Police Department and if they
wish to resign from service before their probation is over,
they should sign an agreement of consent to the effect that
they are willing to pay at the time of tendering their
resignation, any amount which was incurred on uniforms
etc., As Decided by the Director of Police Training College.
The acceptance of resignation should conform to the
Section 4 Chapter V in V olume I of the Establishment
Code 1985.
(vii)Probationary Police Constable (Mechanic) immediately
after they have commenced training at the Police Training
College should affirm/swear that they adhere to the Police
Disciplinary Code in terms of the I.G.P. Circular No. 1693/
2003. Sub inspector of Police who have been confirmed in
the post will have opportunities for promotions according
to the approved scheme of promotion of the Police
Department.
(viii)They should  soon after commencing the training at Police
College, subscribe the Oath of Allegiance to the Public
Service, in terms of the I.G.P . 's Circular No. 1804/2004.
(ix)Police constable (Mechanic) will have the scope for
promotion it terms of the approved scheme of promotions
of the Police Department.
7. (i) Attention is invited to the general conditions applicable to
appointment to posts in the Police Service published in
the Section (IIA) of the Part I of this Gazette ;
(ii)Enlistment will be made in terms of Public Administration
Circular No. 15/90- dated 10.03.1990.
8. Applicants should annex copies of following documents to
their application. (originals must not be forwarded) :
(i) Birth Certificate ;

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.03.2007
200
(ii) Two recent testimonials of character (obtained from per-
sons who are not related ) ;
(iii ) Certificates in support of educational qualifications ;
(iv) Certificates in support of any outstanding sports or other
extra curricular activities ;
(v) Certificates of service experience, (if available) ;
(vi) A Photostat Copy of the National Identity Card.
9. (a) Applications from applicants who are already in the Public
Service/services must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective departments and must be accompanied by
a certificate stating that the officers can be released, if
selected.
(b) Applicants must fill the required particulars in their own
hand writing on paper 11"x8" in size and post them together
with the copies of certificates called for to the address
given in paragrph 2 and under no circumstances should
applications be handed over personally to any officer in
the department.
10. Applications, which do not conform to the requirements,
stipulated in this notification will be rejected and such applicants
will not be notified.
Note.— No Traveling or other  expenses will be paid to applicants
who are summoned for the test and interview.
V
ICTOR  PERERA ,
Inspector General of Police.
Police Headquarters,
Colombo 01.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
Sri Lanka Police Department
Vacancies in the Post of Police Constable (Mechanic)
01. Applicant’s Professional :——.
02. Name in full (in block letters):——.
(As stated in the Applicant’s Birth Certificate)
(a) Name with initials:——.
(b) Gender :——.
03. National Identity Card No. :——.
04. Father’s Name in Full:——.
05. Place of Birth of the applicants:——.
(a) Police stations to which the place of birth belongs.——.
(b) Province:——.
06. (a)   Present address :——.
(b) Police station to which the present address belongs:——.
(c) Permanent Address:——.
(d) Police station and the electorate to which the permanent
address belongs:——.
07. (a) Nationality.——
(b) Whether you are citizen by birth or registration (if by
registration attach copies of the certificate) :——.
If you are a citizen by birth state the place of birth of—
(i) Applicants:——,
(ii)Applicants’ Father:——,
(iii)Applicant’s paternal grandfather:——,
(iv) Applicant’s paternal great grandfather:——.
08. Age :  (as on the closing date of application given in the
Gazette) :
Years :——,  Months:——,  Days:——.
(Copy of birth certificate should be attached).
09. Heights : (inches)——, Chest : (Inches):——.
10. Educational Qualifications (State Examinations passed and attach
copies of certificates:——.
11. Whether married or single:——.
12. (i) Present Employment:——.
(ii)Are you a members of any Armed force ?:——.
13. Have you any special claims and/or qualifications ?:——.
14. Give names and addresses of two non-related referees:——.
(i) .............................................,
(ii)............................................. .
15. Have you served earlier in the Police Service or Reserve Police
Service ?:——.
(If so reasons for leaving the service, give particulars):
16. (a) Are you serving in any of the Armed Services ? (If so your
application must be submitted through the respective Service
Commander):——.
(b) Have you served in any of the Armed Services ? (If so,
attach copy of your discharge certificate):——.
17. (a) Are you serving as a V olunteer in any one of the Armed
Services ? (If so, your application must be submitted through
the respective Service Commander):——.

<!-- page 7 -->

201 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.03.2007
(b) Have you served as a V olunteer in any of the Armed Serv-
ices? (If so, attach a copy/copies of your discharge certifi-
cate/certificates):——.
18. Have you been involved in or concerned in or charged or arrested
even on suspicion and or convicted of any offence? (If so, give
details):——.
19. Have any of your relatives been involved in or concerned in or
charged or arrested even on suspicion, or convicted of any
offence ? (If so, give details):——.
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.
I hereby declare that the above particulars are true and correct  to
the best of my knowledge and belief. I am aware that I am liable for
termination of my service in the Police Department forthwith (even
if I have been appointed at any time) if the particulars furnished are
found to be incorrect or false.
——,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date:——.
03-326
EXAMINATION FOR PROMOTION OF OFFICERS IN
CLASS III OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS'
SERVICE INTO CLASS II OF THE SERVICE - 2007
IT is hereby notified that a qualifying examination for promotion of
officers in Class III of Public Management Assistants' Service into
Class II of the Service will be held in all three languages i.e. Sinhala,
Tamil and English in the month of June 2007, by the Commissioner
- General of Examinations.
2.0 This examination for the promotion of Officers in Class III of
the Public Management Assistants' Service into Class II of the Service
will be held in Colombo, Galle, Kandy, Jaffna, Batticaloa, Matara,
Kurunegala, Ratnapura, Badulla and Anuradhapura. The list of towns
with their respective town numbers is given below :
Town Town Number
Colombo 01
Galle 02
Kandy 03
Jaffna 04
Batticaloa 05
Matara 06
Kurunegala 07
Ratnapura 08
Badulla 09
Anuradhapura 10
If any centre mentioned above does not have a sufficient number
of candidates, that centre will be cancelled and those candidates will
be assigned to the next nearest centre.
3.0 (i) This examination will be conducted by the
Commissioner General of Examinations and the
candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations
imposed by him.
(ii)The rules and regulations for candidates have been
separately printed in the Gazette notification.
Candidates will be subject to any punishment imposed
by the Commissioner General of Examinations for
violation of the rules and regulations.
4.0 Eligibility.—Officers in Class III of the Service, who have
been confirmed in their posts before 09th April, 2007 and who have
completed an active and a satisfactory service period of 04 years are
eligible to appear for this examination.
Note.— The date of qualifying for promotion to Class II of the
Service of an officer will be the date the officer passed the
examination or the date in which he/she complete 05 years
of active and satisfactory service, whichever occurs later.
5.0 Scheme of Examination.—The subjects of the examination
and the marks assigned to each subject are given below. Marks will
be deducted for bad handwriting and spelling mistakes. Candidates
whose handwriting is illegible are liable to be disqualified :
Subject Marks Duration
(i) Establishment Procedure 100 02 Hours
(ii)Accounting Systems 100 02 Hours
(iii)General Paper 100 01 Hour
Establishments Procedure .— The objective of this question paper
is to test the proficiency of experience obtained in office activities
and to test the knowledge on office systems adopted in Government
offices to cover subject fields such as principles of office procedures,
importance of office procedures, written communication, filling
methods and preparation of forms etc..
Accounting Systems .— The question paper will be as follows :-
(a) Part I - Exercises on adding and subtraction. (25 Marks) ;
(b) Part II - Testing the candidates knowledge and
understanding of subjects such as Financial Control
exercised in Government Offices, departments and
ministries, custody of finance, receipts and payments,
budgetary estimations, supplies, work and service is
expected from this paper. (50 Marks) ;
(c) Part III - Basics on inspection and storing of goods. (25
Marks).
Note.— Candidates will not be allowed to use calculators for adding
exercises. Duration is 15 minutes only.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.03.2007
202
General Paper : This paper consists of two parts ;
I. Candidates are expected to read and understand a statement
or minutes of discussion and prepare a report and/or a
letter ;
II. Candidates' ability of understanding and analyzing the
current social affairs will be measured by this.
Note.—(i) The officers should answer these question papers in the
language medium in which they sat the entry examination
to the service or any other official language.
(ii) To qualify in these subjects, candidates will be required
to obtain a minimum of 33 per cent (33%) of the marks
in each of these papers and an aggregate of 40 per cent
(40%) of the marks in all three papers in one sitting.
(iii)The model question papers relevant to the subjects of
the examination will be published in the website of the
Ministry of Public Administration & Home Affairs in
due course (website address : www.pubad.gov.lk)
6.0 Commissioner - General of Examinations will release the
results of this examination to the Director-General of Combined
Services and the names of the successful candidates will be published
in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
7.0 The application for this examination should be in the form of
the specimen appended to this notification. Applicants should
prepare the applications themselves according to the specimen.
Applications prepared thus should be sent by the registered post
through the respective Heads of Departments to reach the
Commissioner-General of Examinations, Department of
Examinations, Organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Pelawatte, Battaramulla on or before 09th April, 2007. The
application form should be accompanied by a certificate of
satisfactory service. Heads of Departments must ensure that each
application is completed in every respect and that they have signed
the service certificate appended to the application form. The name
of the examination should be indicated in the top-left hand corner of
the envelope. Applications received after the closing date wil be
rejected.
8.0 Identity of the Candidates.— Candidates wil be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose, one of the
following documents should be submitted to the supervisor :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid Passport.
The Candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above
mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion of the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
9.0 Applications - Applications should be prepared in a paper of
A4 size in such a manner that para nos. 1.0 to 5.0 appear on the first
page. The application could be typewritten but should be filled in
correctly and legibly by candidates' own handwriting.
The candidates appearing for the examination for the first time
need not pay examination fees. However,  stamps to the value of Rs.
90 should be affixed for subsequent sittings and the stamps should
be duly cancelled by placing signature of the candidate and the date.
Under any circumstances, this fees will not be refunded and
transferred in respect of any other examination.
The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue copies of
the time table and admission cards to all candidates whose applications
have been received. Candidates should get their signature on the
admission card attested in advance and surrender to the supervisor
of the examination hall. Candidates without admission cards will not
be permitted to sit for the examination. If a candidate has not received
his/her admission card at least seven days before the day of
examination, he/she should, without delay, inform the
Commissioner-General of Examinations, Department of
Examinations, Organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla (Telegraphic Address : "Exams",
Battaramulla) about the non-receipt of admission card along with the
following information :
(i) Name of the Examination ;
(ii)Full Name of the Candidate ;
(iii)Full postal Address ;
(iv)Post Office, Registration Number and the Date of
Dispatch.
10.0 The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations to enable them to appear
for the examination. No travelling expenses will be paid.
11.0 For the purpose of the Official Languages Policy, all the
candidates should prepare and fill their applications in the official
language.
12.0 The decision of the Director - General of Combined Services
will be final in any matter not provided for in this notification.
A. N
OBERT ,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration & Home
Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration
& Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07.
19th February, 2007.

<!-- page 9 -->

203 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.03.2007
Specimen Application Form
(For Office use only)
EXAMINATION FOR PROMOTION OF OFFICERS IN
CLASS III OF  PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS’
SERVICE INTO  CLASS II OF THE SERVICE – 2007
Town Town No.
1.
2.
(Indicate the name of the town in which you wish
to appear for the examination)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials : ————.
(In English Block Capitals) eg .— SILV A, A. B.
1.2 Name in Full : ————.
(In English Block Capitals)
1.3 Name in Full : ————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 Have you changed your name after entering the Public
Service ? : ————.
If yes, indicate the previous name : ————.
2.0 Name and address of the work place :
2.1 Name and the Address of the Office/Department/
Institution : ————.
(In English Block Capitals)
2.2 Name and Address of the Office/Department/
Institute :————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
(Admission Cards will be posted to this address)
3.0 National Identity Card No.:
4.0 Language Medium of Examination :
Sinhala – 2, Tamil – 3, English – 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage. Candidates will not
be allowed to change this subsequently)
5.0 5.1 Sex :
Female –1,  Male – 0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
5.2 Date of Birth :
Year     Month    Date
6.0 Present Post :
6.1 Post : ————.
6.2 Number and date of the appointment letter : ————.
6.3 Date of confirmation in the post as an officer in Class III
of the Service : ————.
7.0 7.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ?
:————.
7.2 If not, value of the stamps affixed : ————.
7.3 Stamp Cage
Affix Stamps to the value of Rs. 90/ for subsequent sittings.
8.0 Candiate’s Statement :
I solemnly certify that, –
(i) the statement made by me above are true to the best of my
knowledge and belief ;
(ii) I am an officer in Public Management Assistants’ Service
and my appointment has been confirmed on …………
………………… ;
(iii) I have earned all/all possible increments during the period
of 4 years immediately preceding 09th April, 2007 ;
(iv) I have not suffered any punishment more servre than a
fine or a reprimand since the date of last increment ;
(v) I appear for this examination for the first time/that stamps
to the correct a value are affixed here as exam fee.
I am aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be
false and incorrect, disciplinary actions would be taken against me. I
agree to abide by the regulations of this examination.
I hereby state that information furnished above are true, and that
I am eligible to appear for the exam in the language medium mentioned
above. The stamps affixed to the value of Rs. ………… are valid and
has not been used.  I agree to abide by the rules stipulated for this
examination.
————.
Signature of the candidate
(See the foot note).
Date : ————.
Note.– The candidate should sign in the presence of the Head of
his/her Department or an officer authorized to sign on behalf
of the Head of Department.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.03.2007
204
Attestation of the Signature
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ……………………………… who
is an officer employed at my work place and who is known to me
personally ………………………… placed his/her signature in my
presence on this ………………… day of ……………… 2007.
————.
Signature and stamp of the person attesting.
Name : …………………………
Designation : ……………………
Address : ………………………
Date : …………………
Certificate of the Head of the Department
I certify that, –
(i) Mr./Mrs./Miss. ……………………………… is an officer
in Clss III of the Public Management Assistant’s Service
and has completed 04 years of service as at 09th April,
2007 and is eligible to sit the examination in terms of the
notification published in the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka dated …………………
(ii)The number of  the appointment letter of Class II of Officer
as per his/her personal file is …………………
(Indicate the number of the appointment letter)
(iii)The particulars given in para. 1.0 to 6.0 have been verified
and were found to be correct.
(iv)He/She is sitting the examination for the first time/
prescribed stamps for the relevant examination has been
affixed.
*(Delete inapplicable words)
————.
Signature of the Head of Department
and Official Stamp.
Name : …………………………
Designation : ……………………
Address : ………………………
Date : …………………
03-352
MINSTRY  OF  HEALTHCARE  AND  NUTRITION
Recruitment of Students for Dispensers’ Training – 2007
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible citizens of Sri Lanka for
recruitment to the Dispensers’ Training in the Department of Health
Services.
01. Eudcational Qualifications :
(a) G.C.E. (A/L) Examination.– Passed G.C.E. (A/L)
Examination in three subjects at one sitting out of the
following subjects inclusive of Chemistry.
Subjects : Pure Maths, Applied Maths/Combined Maths,
Chemistry, Physics, Zoology/Botany, Biology and
Agriculture Science.
(b) G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.– Passed G.C.E. (O/L)
Examination in six subject at not more than two sittings
with credit passes from Sinhala/Tamil Language,
Mathematics, Science and one another subject.
01.2 Other Qualifications :
(c) Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 40
years as at 09.02.2007.
(d) should agree to serve in any part of the island.
(c) Should have a healthy physic.
02. A competitive examination will be hled in several selected
districs for applicants with required qualifications and those who
have securd highest marks will be subjected to an interview and
selected for training. The examination will have to question papers
on Maths comprehension and Intelligence Test and the Chemistry.
The marks will be counted on the accumulated marks for both papers.
03. Since this has been a full-time training course, the students
who attend to other training courses during the five days of the week
and forenoon on Saturday should not apply for this course.
04. The period of trainig is one year (this includes theoretical
training for 09 months and practical training for 03 months).
05. Method of Application :
(a) Applications should be prepared on the form of specimen
appended to this.
(b) Examination fees.– Every candidate should pay the
examination fee of Rs. 200 by a money order drawn in
favour of the Secretary, Ministry of Healthcare and
Nutrition, “Suwasiripaya”, No. 385, Ven. Baddegama
Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10 and encashable
from the General Post Office, Colombo. The examination
fees once paid will not be refunded under any
circumstances.

<!-- page 11 -->

205 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.03.2007
(c) The signature of the candidate should be attested by an
officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/Educational
Aministrative Service. Government Accountants’ Service/
Principal of a Government School/Justice of the Peace/
Attorney-at-Law or an officer in the Public Service drawing
a salary not less than Rs. 124,080 per annum.
(d) the applications duly perfected should be sent under
Registered Cover to reach the director (Examinations),
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition, “Suwsiripaya”
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10 on or before 09.04.2007. The words
“Recruitment of Dispenser Trainees” should be written
on the top left corner of the envelopes enclosing
application.
06. Admission Cards.– The Secretary Health will issue admission
cards so as to be received by the candidates before one week of the
date of examination. A notice to this effect will be published in the
newspapers and the candidates are required to be attentive in this
regard. The candidates should smbmit one of the following documents
to the Supervisor in the examination center to prove their identity.
(a) Valid National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Persons Registration,
(b) Valid passport.
07. The candidate those who have not received admission cards
by that time should inquire from the Director (Examinations)with
following details (Tel. No. 011-2679160).
(a) Name of the examination ;
(b) Selected Town ;
(c) District applied for ;
(d) Application Registered number ;
(e) Receipt number for payment of fees.
08. Candidates those who are in the government or semi-
government institutions should submit their applications through
the Heads of Institutions.
09. Applications will not be acknowledged.
10. Applications received after the due date will not be
entertained.
11. Applications which are not conform to this notification will
be rejected.
12. Candidates those who have fulfilled educational and other
qualifications and those who have secured higher marks at the
competitive examination will be called for an interview. They should
submit originals of the documents which are required, at the interview
and the candidates who failed to submit originals of the documents at
the interview will be rejected for their eligibility for this training.
13. (a) The trainees recruitd for training are subjected to the
rules and regulations in force within the Training Schools
and other orders enforced by the Department of Health
from time to time.
(b) The training of those trainees who fail in the examinations
conducted by the Training Schools, or whose work and
conduct is unsatisfactory or who fail to comply with the
conditiosn of leave and examinations can be terminated
at any time without payment of any compensation.
(c) An allowance of will be paid to the trainees during the
period of their training.
(d) Trainees at the time of admission to the training should
enter into an agreement with the Director General of
Health Services that they complete the training
successfully without leaving the same and they serve the
Department of Health Services for a minimum of 05
years period provided they got appointments after
completion of the training. If they left the training or
withdrew from the training or their training had to be
terminated as per Section13 above they should refund to
the Department the allowancs paid to him/her and the
expenditure incurrd for him/her by the government during
the period his/her training. Otherwise actions will be
taken to recover such money as provided for in the
agreement.
14. Terms of Engagements.– The Government is not bound to
grant permanent appointments at the end of the training. However
candidates who have passed in the  final examination will be appointed
to the post of Dispenser Grade III by the Department based on the
merit and availability of vacancies in the relevant post in any part of
the island.
15. The details of educational and other qualifications should be
carefully and correctly entered when filling in the application. If the
particualrs furnished were proved false or incorrect after admission
to the training or granting appointments, action will be taken to
cancel the appointment and dismiss him/her from the training/service
and blacklist the name.
16. The selected candidates should undergo a medical examination
to confirm that they are mentally and physically fit to follow the
said training course and to serve in any part of the island. The
candidates who are not recommended by the medical examination
will not be eligible to follow the training course.
17. The officers so recruited are subjected to the provisions in the
Establishment Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka,
policies enacted by the Department of Heath Services, Financial and
other regulations and rules and regulations enforced by the government
from time to time.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.03.2007
206
18. The dicision of the Secretary to the Ministry of Healthcare
and Nutrition will be the final in respect of any issue pertaining to
the training which is not covered by this Gazette notification.
Dr. H. A. P . KAHANDALIYANAGE ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
Recruitment for Dispensers’ Training
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition
For Office use
Medium : District applied for in preferential order
Sinhala – S 01
Tamil – T 02
(Write the relevant letter 03
in the box)
01. (a) Name with initials : ————.
(In block letters)
(b) Name in Full (in block letters) : ————.
(c) Name in Full (in Sinhala/Tamil) : ————.
(d) National Identity Card No. :
02. (a) Permanent Addres :
In Sinhala/Tamil In English
……………………… …………………………
……………………… …………………………
……………………… …………………………
……………………… …………………………
(b) Address to which the admission card to be sent : ———.
03. (a) Sex (write the relevant letter in the box)
Female – F
Male –    M
(b) Date of birth : Date : ———, Month : ———, Year : ———.
(c) Age as at … … … 2007 : Days : ———,  Months : ———,
Years :  — — — .
04. Educational Qualifications :
G.C.E. (O/L) Examination First Sitting :
Year :———.
Index No. :———.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
01 06
02 07
03 08
04 09
05 10
G.C.E. (O/L) Examination Second Sitting :
Year :———.
Index No. :———.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
01 06
02 07
03 08
04 09
05 10
G.C.E. (A/L) Examination :
Year  :———.
Index No.  :———.
Subject Grade
01
02
03
04
05. Other Qualifications : ————.
06. Have you ever been convicted by a Court of Law for any
offence ?
Y es            No
(Please mark P in the relevant box)
If yes specify : ————.
07. Details of the receipt for payment of examination fees :
(a) Office to which the Examination fees are paid? : —— — — .
(b) V oucher No. and Date : ————.
(c) Amount paid : ————.
08.Declaration of the Applicant :
(a) I do hereby respectfully declare that the information provided
by me in this application are true and correct to the best of
my knowledge. I agree to bear any loss for not filling any
part hereof or filling erroneously. Further I declare that I
have filled in all the parts hereof correctly.

<!-- page 13 -->

207 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.03.2007
(b) I am aware that I am liable to be disqualified if this declara-
tion is proved to be false before appointment and dismissed
if the same is detected after the appointment.
(c) I agree to abide by all the conditions of this examination.
(d) I will not change any information provided in this application
at a later stage.
————,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date : ————.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
09. Attestation :
I certify that Mr/Mrs./Miss.  …………………………………
who submits this application is personally known to me and he/she
placed his/her signature on …………………………………… before
me.
————,
Signature of the Attestor.
Date : ————.
Full name of the Attestor : …………………………………
…………………………………
Designation : …………………………………………………
Address :……………………………………………………
(confirm with official frank please)
03-353