

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2010
1041
1041
wxl 1"660 - 2010 cqks ui 24 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2010'06'24
No. 1,660 – THURSDAY , JUNE 24, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... ––
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 1043
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 02nd July, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 18th June,
2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part I-III of the Gazette No. 1,659 of 18.06.2010 was not published.
The List of Jurors in Galle High Court - 2010, has been published in Part VI of this Gazette in Sinhala Language.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2010
1042
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Stan dard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2010
1043
FIRST  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  DEVELOPMENT  ASSISTANTS  AND  PLANNING/FINANCIAL
ASSISTANTS  RECRUITED  UNDER  THE  MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION – 2010
IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination will be held by the Department of Examinations in the month of September, 2010
in accordance with the provisions in the Schemes of Recruitment relating to the officers belonging to the above posts.
02. (i) This examination will conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations of the Department of Examinations
and the candidates will be subjected to the rules and regulations stipulated by him relating to the conduct of examinations.
(ii) Rules and regulations stipulated for obtaining candidature are printed separately in this Gazette publication. In the
event of any candidate violating these rules and regulations he/she will be liable to a punishment to be imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
(iii) Applications can be forwarded for this examination only by the officers who obtained their appointments under the
Ministry of Education.
03. Examination fees.– Examination fees will not be charged from candidates appearing for the first sitting for this examination.
Thereafter an examination fee of Rs. 300 will be charged if appearing for once. A margin of the receipt obtained for payment of the fee at
any Divisional Secretary’s offices in the island to the credit of Revenue Head 20-03-20-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations
should be firmly affixed at the place provided for same in the application. (It will be useful to retain a photocopy of this re ceipt with the
candidate).
04. Applications.– Application should be prepared in conformity with the specimen form appended to this notification. It
should be prepared by using A4 size paper with items 01 to 03 appearing in the first page and other items in the second page. In preparing
the application the name of the examination should be written in English in addition to Sinhala in Sinhala applications and in English in
addition to Tamil in Tamil applications. Although the application can be typewritten it should be legibly filled in candidate's  own
handwriting. Duly completed applications should be sent under Sri Lanka registered post through the relevant Zonal Director of
Education/President NCOE/Head of the Department addressed to the Commissioner General of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla
to be received before 10th July, 2010. Name of the examination should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope wh en
forwarding the application.
A certified photocopy of the leter of appointment should be annexed to the application. Applications with incomplete
information and those received after the closing date will be rejected. And it is advisable for the candidate to keep a photoco py of the
application with him. Further, the candidate should check whether the perfected application is in conformity with the specimen
application form as otherwise the application is liable to be rejected.
05. Identity of the Candidates.– Candidates should prove their identity to the satisfaction of the Supervisor of the Examination
Hall relating to every subject they appear in the examination hall. One of the documents indicated below will be accepted for this purpose.
1. National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of the Department of Registration of Persons.
2. A Valid Passport.
Decision of the Commissioner General of Examinations regarding the candidature of a candidate who fail to submit the above
documents will be the final decision.
06. An admission card and a copy of the examination time table will be issued by the Commissioner General of Examinations
to the candidates whose applications have been accepted. Candidates appearing for the examination should submit their admission  cards
with their signatures duly attested, to the Supervisor of the examination hall. Permission will not be granted to sit the examination without
submitting this admission card. Immediately after the issue of admission cards to the candidates a newspaper notification will be
published to that effect by the Department of Examinations. If the admission card is not received even after the lapse of 2 or 3 days after
the publication of such notice candidates should notify the Department of Examinations as indicated in the notification. It wil l be more
useful to notify the Department along with a certified photocopy of the application retained by the candidate, registration rec eipt and a
fax number when it is outside Colombo to send the admission card, along with the letter of request.
07. The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for the officers for whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner General of Examinations to enable them appear for the examination. No travelling expenses will be paid for this purpose.
08. Candidates should answer the question papers in the language medium they received education or in the official language.
Permission will not be granted later to change the language medium applied for by the candidates. This examination will be held  only in
Sinhala, Tamil and English media.
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2010
1044
09. This examination will be held only in Colombo.
10. Examination procedure .– The examinations relevant to above posts will comprise following subjects.
Answers should be given to each one of the following question papers on the following subjects (Time allocated - 02 hours).
(i) General administration - Office Management :
Provisions in the Establishment Code and Office Management Chapters : I, II, V, VI, VII, VIII, XII, XIV , XV , XVI,
XXIV, XXV , XXVII, XXVIII, XXX, XXXII of the Establishment Code are relevant ;
(ii) Financial Regulations and Accounts :
(a) Government Financial Regulations - Part I (Except Chapter 10).
Applicants should score more than 40% or more for each subject to obtain a pass.
11. The issue of an admission card for the examination is no indication of his/her eligibility to appear for the examination.
12. In respect any aspect not provided for by this notification of examination, the decision of the Secretary of the Ministry o f
Education is final.
S
UNIL S. SIRISENA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
‘Isurupaya’,
Baththaramulla.
03rd June, 2010.
Specimen Application Form
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANTS AND PLANNING/FINANCIAL
ASSISTANTS RECRUITED UNDER THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION – 2010
(For Office use)
Language medium selected for the examination
Relevant number should be written within the cage
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
01. Name with initials at the end :–––––––––––.
(In English Capital letters) Example : SUNIL, J. M. U.
1.1 Names denoted by initials :–––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 National Identity Card No. :
02. Place of work and address :–––––––––––.
2.1 Name of school/COE/Teachers' College/Office :–––––––––––.
2.2 Official address :–––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
03. Post held at present :–––––––––––.
(Certified copy of letter of appointment should be annexed)
3.1 Reference number of letter of appointment :–––––––––––.
3.2 Date of appointment :–––––––––––.
 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2010
1045
I hereby declare that the particulars furnished above are true and correct and I am entitled to sit this examination in the medium
indicated above and I also agree to abide by the rules and regulations to be imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
relating to the conducting of this examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
Note.– Candidate should sign in the presence of his Head of Department or an officer authorized to sign on behalf of the Head of
Department.
Receipt should be affixed here
(It will be useful to retain a photocopy to the receipt)
Attestation of Signature
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ........................................................ who is an offficer in my office/School/C ollege of Education/
Teachers' College and who is personally known to me placed his/her signature in my presence.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Certifying Officer and His official frank.
(Principal/President NCOE/Teacher's College/Staff Officer)
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
Certificate of Head of Department :
I certify -
1. That the information furnished by the candidate was verified.
2. That a certified copy of the letter of appointment is annexed ; and
3. That the officer is eligible to sit this examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Certifying Officer and his official frank.
(Head of Department/Zonal Director of Education/President (NCOE).
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
06-484
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.