

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'02'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2009
259
259
wxl 1"591 - 2009 fmnrjdß 27 jeks isl=rdod - 2009'02'27
No. 1,590 – FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 262
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 263
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 06th March, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 20th
February, 2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.—  Part III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,590 of  20.02.2009 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'02'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2009
260
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'02'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2009
261
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of
Examinations.Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'02'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2009
262
Posts – Vacant
MINISTRY  OF  CONSTRUCTION  AND  ENGINEERING
SERVICES
Department of Government Factory
APPLICATIONS are called from Sri Lankan citizens who possess
the following minimum qualifications, for the post of Legal Assistant
in the Department of Government Factory.
(1) Method of application :
01.1 Applications prepared following the specimen
Application Form given below and duly perfected on
both sides should be sent to reach the Factory Engineer,
Government Factory, Kolonnawa, under registered cover
to be received on or before 16th March, 2009. The name
of the post applied for should be written clearly on the
top left hand corner of the envelope where the
Application Form is enclosed.
01.2 Applications received after the closing date will not be
accepted.
Important.– Applications will not be acknowledged. Applications
that do not conform to the required qualifications and those which
are not duly perfected will be rejected.
Candidates are advised to post their applications early in order
to avoid postal delays.
In the event of any inaccurate information furnished in the
applications being discovered prior to the appointment of any
candidate, the candidacy of such applicant will be cancelled. If such
inaccuracies are discovered after the appointment, the applicant
concerned will be dismissed from service.
(2) Educational Qualifications :
A Degree obtained from a recognized University, with Law as a
subject.
(3) Salary Scale. – In terms of Sacale MN 4 -2006 of Public
Administration Circular No. 6/2006(IV)
Rs. 15,215-215 x 10 x 240 x 4 - 320 x 7 - 360 x 15 - 25,965
(There is an Efficiency Bar Examination prior to Rs. 15,860)
(4)  Other Qualifications :
Should be a Sri Lankan citizen with excellent character and sound
physical health.
(5) Age Limit.– Should be not less than 18 years and not more
than 45 years of age as at 16.03.2009 (This age limit will not apply
to those who are already in the Government or Provincial
Government Service).
(6) Recruitment Procedure :
Appointment will be on the basis of marks obtained at a structural
interview.
(7) Implementation of the Official Language Policy
All officials who join the service after 01.07.2007 are required
to obtain proficiency in the Official Language other than that in
which he/she joined the service, within 5 years of joining in terms
of Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007 issued by the
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs on 28.04.2007.
(8) Conditions of Employment :
8.1 This post is  permanent and pensionable. The appointee
should contribute to the W & OP and Widows' Pension
Schemes.
8.2 Candidates selected should be subjected to the provisions
of the Establishments Code, FR and the rules and
regulations issued by the government or the Line Ministry
or the Government Factory.
8.3 Provisions of paragraphs 10 to 12 of Chapter II of the
Establishments Code too will apply.
8.4 This appointment is subjected to a 3 year probation
period.
Factory Engineer,
Government Factory.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
M
INISTRY OF CONSTRUCTION AND ENGINEERING SERVICES DEP ARTMENT
OF GOVERNMENT FACTORY
Post applied for :............................................
For office use only
01. ( a) Name with initials :————.
(b) Name denoted by initials :————.
(c) Name with initials (In English) :————.
02. Address and Telephone Number :————.
(a) Official Address :————.
Telephone Number :————.
(Any change in the address or the Telephone Number
shold be informed immediately)
03. Date and place of birth :–––––––––.
(Age on the last day of receiving applications)

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'02'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2009
263
NIC No. and the date of issue :————.
04. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka ? :–––––––––.
05. (i) Gender :————.
(ii) Whether married/unmarried or widowed :————.
06. Educational and Professional Qualifications :
Examination/ Year Subjects Class Name of
Degree other offered Institute/University
07. Other Qualifications :
08. Ethnicity (Mark the relevant Number in the box) :
Sinhala : 1
Sri Lankan Tamil : 2
Sri Lankan Moor : 3
Indian Origin : 4
Other : 5
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate. I am aware that I will be subjected
to disqualification if any of the particulars mentioned by me here is
found to be false or incorrect prior to my being selected and to
dismissal from service with no compensation if such falsity or
inaccuracy is discovered after being appointed.
————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :————.
(This section is applicable only to those employed or being trained
in the public sector)
Certificate of the Head of Department/Institution
I certify that Mr/Mrs./Miss ………………… who has applied
for the post of ……………… is at present employed/uner training
as a ……………… in the Ministry/Department/Institute of
………………… and that his/her work and conduct is satisfactory.
He/she can be/cannot be released from service if he/she is selected
for this post.
————,
Signature of the Head of Department.
Date :————.
Official Stamp
02-651
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
FIRST  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION – 2009  FOR  WOMEN  DEVELOPMENT  OFFICERS  OF  THE
MINISTRY  OF  CHILD  DEVELOPMENT  AND  WOMEN'S  EMPOWERMENT
FIRST Efficiency Bar Examination for Women Development Officers of the Ministry of Child Development and Women's Empowerment
will be held by the Commissioner General of Examination on May 2009 in Colombo. It is herewith informed that 27th March, 2009 is the
closing date of the application for this examination.
02. Procedures of the Examination :–
This Efficiency Bar Examination consists of the following subjects :–
Subject No. 01 Financial Regulations/Office systems Duratio 2 hours 100 marks
Subject No. 02 Gender and Women's Rights do do
Subject No. 03 Sociological and Psychological Counselling do do
Notes :
(a) Officers are permitted to sit all subjects at a single sitting or separately at several sittings.
(b) In order to pass this examination all candidates should be score 40% of the marks or above for each question paper.
03. Subjects :–
(i) Financial regulations and Office systems :
* State managerial structure of Sri Lanka,
* Financial control and annual estimates,

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'02'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2009
264
* First volume of the Government financial regulations. (excluding chapter X),
* Orders of the establishment code,
* Office Management.
The following chapters of the establishment code will be covered.
(I, II, IV, V, VII, IX, XII, XV, XXIII, XXVI, XXVII, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII).
(ii) Gender and Women's Rights :
* Discriminations against women,
* Gender in Sri Lankan Society,
* Women's Charter of Sri Lanka and Women's Rights,
(iii) Sociological and Psychological Counselling :
* Rural Sociology
* Urbanization of Sri Lanka
* Labour Development
* Basic Features and Ethics of Psychological Counselling
* Women and Mental Injustice
* Counselling Career and Counselling Opportunities in Sri Lanka.
04. A Specimen application form of this examination has been published at the end of this notice. Candidates should prepare
their appliations in accordance with the specimen. Application should be prepared in an A4 size paper which should bear No. 01 to No.
06 in the first page and the rest in the second. It should be submitted in candidate's own handwriting.
05. The application should be sent under registered cover through the heads of respective departments (if the appliant is from
a Divisional Secretary) addressed to the Commissioner General of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla to reach on or before 27 th
March, 2009. The name of the examination should be indicated on the top left hand corner of the envelope which enclosed the application.
Applications received after the closing date and the incomplete applications will be rejected.
In compliance to the official language policy newly recruited officers could submit their applications in the official language or
application prepared in the language of Tamil/English in which the officer was selected to the service.
06. A copy of the time table of the examination long with the admission card willl be issued by the commissioner to the
candidates whose applications were accepted. Simultaneously a notification will be published in the news paper in respect of th e date of
examination. In case a candidate fail to receive the admission card at least four days before the examination, it should be imm ediately
notified with the following details to the Commissioner General of Examinations, Organizations and Foreign examination Branch,
Department of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramlla. (Telegram address, Examination Battaramulla).
(i) Name of the Examination ;
(ii) Full name of the applicant ;
(iii) Address ;
(iv) Name of the post office where the application was posted, registration number and the address.
07. Proof of Identify.– Candidates should prove their identity to the supervisor of the examination centre at the time she sits each
paper. Any of the following documents will be accepted in respect of identification.
(i) A valid National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of Registration of Persons.
(ii) A valid passport.
The Commissioner General of Examinations has the power to cancel or reject the candidature of those failed to submit the above
mentioned documents.
08. Examination Fees.– Fees will be charged from the candidates who sit this examination based the following :–
Rs. cts.
(a) No examination fee will be charged for the first time –
(b) After first time, for the complete examination 250 0
(c) For each subject 100 0

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'02'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2009
265
A receipt for the fee obtain from the Divisional Secretary after making the payment, so that the account of the Secretary of th e
Ministry of Child Development and Women's Empowerment be credited should be attached to the application.
09. This Examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations and the candidates will be subject to the
rules and regulations imposed by him in respect of conducting the examination.
10. The head of the Department/Office should grant the duty leave to their officers who are entitled to sit for the examination
and holding admission card issued by the Commissioner General of Examination for the examination.
11. Facts not included in the scope of regulation will be at the discretion of the Ministry of Child Development and Women's
Empowerment.
Secretary,
Ministry of Child Development and
Women's Empowerment.
Minisry of Child Development and Women's Empowerment,
No. 177, Nawala Road,
Narahenpita,
Colombo 05.
(For Office use only)
Application Form
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION – 2009 FOR WOMEN DEVELOPMENT OFFICERS OF THE MINISTRY OF
CHILD DEVELOPMENT AND WOMEN'S EMPOWERMENT
Language Medium for the Examination
Sinhala – 2
Tamil – 3
English – 4
01. Name :––––––––––.
1.1 Name with Initials :––––––––––.
Initials at the end (in capital letters in English) Eg. : SILVA A. B.
1.2 Name refers the Initials (in Sinhala of Tamil) :––––––––––.
1.3 National Identity Card No. :
02. Official Address (in capital letters in English) :––––––––––.
2.1 Official Address (Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
2.2 Address where the admission Card has to be sent (in capital letters) :––––––––––.
03. Sex :
3.1 Female – 1,  Male – 0
3.2 Whether married or single Married – 1
Single – 2
3.3 Date of birth :
Date                       Month                         Year
(in capital letters in English)
3.4 Age on closing date of the application :
Years                                   Months           Dates

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'02'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2009
266
04. Date of appointment as a Women Development Officers in the Ministry of Child Development and Women's Empowerment (Should
state the exact date of duty assumption) :–––––––––––.
05. Are you a recruit enlisted in compliance to the state Language Policy ? Or a new recruit ? :–––––––––––.
06. Name of the department (If it is a Divisional Secretariat, name of the office) :–––––––––––.
07. Subject and subject numbers published in the gazette notification under paragraph 2 :–
Subject Subject No.
01. .............................
02. .............................
03. .............................
08. Is this the first time that you sit this examination ? :–––––––––––.
09. Details of the receipt for the payment of Examination Fees :
(i) Divisional Secretariat to where examination fees paid :–––––––––––.
(ii) Receipt number and date :–––––––––––.
(iii) Date of Payment :–––––––––––.
Paste the receipt so that it will not get detached (Keep a photocopy with you)
10. I certify that the particulars above are correct and I declare that I am eligible to sit this examination in the above mentioned language.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
Note.– The applicant should place her signature in presence of her head of the department or an authorized officer to sign on behalf of the
head of the department.
C
ERTIFICATION OF SIGNATURE
I hereby certify that Miss./Mrs. ...................................... is an officer working in my office and personally known  to me and
also placed her signature in my presence.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Attestor.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
C
ERTIFICA TION OF THE HEAD OF THE DEP ARTMENT
I hereby certify that,
(i) I examined the above detail furnished and found them to be correct,
(ii) And also the applicant is eligible to sit this examination.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department
(Place the official stamp here).
Designation :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
02–756

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'02'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2009
267
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTHCARE  AND  NUTRITION
Recruitment of Students for Public Health Inspector Training - 2009
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible male citizens of Sri Lanka for recruitment of students for Public Health Inspector Train ing
course in the Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition.
01. Eligible Students for the training course will be selected based on a priority list prepared in accordance with the z-score value
of G. C. E. (A/L) Examination from 2001 to 2007.
02. Recruitments will be made depending on vacancies available at District level. The applicants selected will be employed
within the district from which they were recruited and if vacancies are not available within that district they will be appoint ed to the
vacancies within the adjoining district.
03. Educational Qualifications :
(a) It is compulsory that applicants should have passed G.C.E. (A/L) Examination from 2001-2007 in three subjects at one
sitting under science stream of subjects with a credit pass for Biology or Combined Maths.
(b) The qualifications required for the training course are as follows:-
Code T raining course G .C.E. (A/L) Qualifications G.C.E. (O/L)
No. Qualifications
01 Public Health Inspector Passed G .C.E. (A/L) examination at one Passed G. C. E. (O/L) in six subjects at
sitting in three subjects in science stream not more than two sittings including
of subjects with a credit pass for English Language with credit passes
Biology or Combined Maths for Sinhala/Tamil Language,
Mathematics, Science and one other
subject.
04. Other Qualifications :
(i) Should be not less than 18 and not more than 30 years of age as at 03.04.2009.
(ii) Should be physically fit.
(iii) Should be 5ft. 02 inches or more in height.
(iv) Should agree to serve in any part of the Island.
(v) Should be a resident for continuous period of 03 years with in the district from which the application is submitted.
05. Public Health Inspectors for hospitals in the Estate Sector too will be selected from these applications. The applicants wi th
high Z score value will be recruited first to be appointed after training to the vacancies generally available within the count ry while the
applicants with less Z score value are later recruited to be appointed to the estate sector. They are required to enter into an agreement with
the Director General of Health Services that they serve the total length of their period of service within the Estate Sector. Also they should
necessarily obtain a special training on Tamil Language.
05.1 Districts which have vacancies for Estate Public Inspectors.
Nuwara Eliya/Kandy/Matale/Badulla/Monaragala/Ratnapura/Kegalle/Kalutara/Galle/Matara.
06. Method of Application :
(i) Applications should be prepared using a A4 size paper as per form of application attached to this notice. Applicant
should affix stamps to the value of Rs. 500 on the "Stamps Cage" in the application and cancel them by placing his
signature.
(ii) The signature of the applicant should be attested by an officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/Education
Service/Government Accountants Service/Principal of a Government School/Justice of the Peace/Attorney-at-Law or
by a Government Officer drawing a salary not less than Rs. 240,360 per annum.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'02'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2009
268
(iii) The applications perfected should be sent under registered cover to reach the Director (Administration) 02, Ministry
of Healthcare and Nutrition, “Suwasiripaya”, No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10
on or before, 03.04.2009. The term “Recruitment of Public Health Inspector for Training - 2009” should be written on
the left hand corner of the envelope enclosing applications.
07. Applications will not be acknowledged.
08. Applications received after due date will be rejected.
09. Applications that do not conform to the requirements of this notice will be rejected.
10. Applicants, who have fulfilled educational and other qualifications above, will be called for interviews. The applicants
should submit originals of the following documents at the interview. The candidature of those candidates who fail to submit ori ginals of
the relevant documents at the interview will be cancelled.
(i) Certificate of Birth ;
(ii) Originals of the educational certificates, and in the abse nce of originals, the results sheet issued to enternal candidates
or the original of the letter issued to the applicant by the Principal of the school from which the applicant sit for the
examination ;
(iii) Certificate issued by the Department of Examinations indicating the G .C.E. (A/L) Examination marks level ;
(iv) National Identity Card/Passport/Driving Licence ;
(v) Certified copies of the Voters Lists from 2005 to 2007 to confirm the residence of applicant within the District for a
period of 03 years. If the name of the applicant is not available in the V oters List, his parents names should be available
and such applicants should submit the Certificate of Residence issued by the Grama Seva officer and countersigned by
the Divisional Secretary to confirms residency in that division during the relevant period.
11. Scheme of Training :
(i) Selected candidates will be admitted to the respective training schools. The period of training is 1 1/2 years (Six months
field training) ;
(ii) The trainees will be subject to the rules and regulations in force within the Training Schools and other regulations
enforced from time to time by the Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition ;
(iii) The training of these trainees who fail in the examinations or whose work and conduct is unsatisfactory or who fail to
comply with the conditions of examination and leave in their schools of training during the period of training is liable to
be stopped at any time without payment of any compensation.
(iv) The trainees will be paid an allowance of Rs. 6,000 during the period of training.
(v) The trainees on admission the training school shall enter into an agreement with the Director General of Health Services
that he completes the training successfully and he does not withdraw from the Training and if he is given an appointment
after completion of training he shall serve the Department of Health Services for a minimum of 10 years period. In the
event he withdraws from the training or leaves the training or had to be discontinued from the training as per paragraph
(iii) above during the period of training, he shall refund to the Department the expenditure incurred for the payment of
allowances and other expenses born by the Government during the period of his training. Otherwise, action will be
taken to recover such expenses incurred by the Department in accordance with the agreement.
12. Terms of Engagement.– The trainees who succeed in the final examination will be appointed by the department to the post
of the Public Health Inspector Class III in the districts where vacancies are available based on their merits at the end of the  training.
13. Information on educational and other Qualifications.- When filling in applications the educational and other qualifications
should be entered with due care. If the certificates furnished by applicant prove are to be false or incorrect after recruitmen t for training
or after giving appointment, action will be taken to discontinue that applicant from the training or to dismiss him or her from  the service
and also to blacklist their names which would prevent them from re-entering to the Government Service.
14. Medical Examination.– The selected candidates should undergo a medical examination, to assure their physical fitness to
serve in any part of Sri Lanka and those who are proved unfit in the said medical examination will become disqualified to conti nue with
their training.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'02'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2009
269
15. All the officers so recruited will be subject to the provisions of the Establishment Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka, circulars enforced by the Department of Health Services, Financial Regulation and other rules and regulations and  orders
enacted from time to time by the Government.
16. The decision of the Secretary, Health will be the final in respect of any issue arising outside this guidelines mentioned in this
gazette notification.
Dr. ATHULA KAHANDALIYANAGE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition.
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition,
“Suwasiripaya”,
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
06th February, 2009.
APPLICATION
M
INISTRY OF HEALTHCARE AND NUTRITION
RECRUITMENT TO THE PUBLIC HEAL TH INSPECTOR TRAINING - 2009
01. ( a) Name with Initials :————.
(in block capitals)
(b) Name in full :————.
(in block capitals)
(c) Name in full  :————.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
02. National Identity Card No. :
03. Postal Address (in block capitals) :
(Sinhala/Tamil)  :————. English  :————.
––––––––. ––––––––.
––––––––. ––––––––.
04. (i) Permanent Address :
(Sinhala/Tamil)  :————. English  :————.
––––––––. ––––––––.
––––––––. ––––––––.
(ii) District :————.
(iii) Are you a permanent Resident in the District?   Yes/No :————.
(iv) If yes, how long? :————.
05. Date of Birth :
Year :———. Month :———. Day :———.
Age as at 03.04.2009 :
Years :———. Months :———. Days :———.
06. Height :  ft.:———. inc hes:———.
07. Are you a Citizen of Sri Lanka (Mark “ 3” in the relevant cage)
Yes
No

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'02'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2009
270
08. Educational Qualifications :
(a) General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination :
(Science subject only) (please attache copy of mark list)
District appeared for this Examination :————.
Year :————,  Index No. :————,   Z Score :————.
Subject Grade
01.
02.
03.
04.
(b) General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination :
First Sitting :
Year :————. Index No. :————.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
01. 07.
02. 08.
03. 09.
04. 10.
05. 11.
06. 12.
Second Sitting :
Year :————.  Index No. :————.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
01. 07.
02. 08.
03. 09.
04. 10.
05. 11.
06. 12.
09. Have you been convicted by a Court of Law for any charge? Y es
(Mark “3” in the relevant cage) No
If “yes” please furnish details :————.
10. Certificate of Applicant:
(a) I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my knowledge and I am no t
undergoing any fulltime course at present.
(b) I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified be fore
selection and to dismissal without compensation if the inaccuracy is discovered after the selection.
“Stamp Cage”
————––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :————.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'02'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2009
271
11. Attestation :-
I do hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ………… is personally known to me and he placed his signature in my
presence on this day of ……………… 2009.
————––––,
Signature of the Attester,
with official seal.
Date :————.
Details of Attester :————.
Full Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
02-604
–––––––––––––––
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  AND  THE  WRITTEN  TEST  ON  COMPUTER  SKILLS  FOR
OFFICERS  IN  CLASS  III  OF  PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT  ASSISTANTS'  SERVICE – 2008(1)
1.0 IT is hereby notified that an efficiency bar examination and a written test on computer skills for officers in class III of the Public
Management Assistants' Service will be held by the Commissioner - General of Examinations as per the provisions of the relevant
approved Service Minutes in the month of June, 2009.
2.0 Information on the eligibility of the candidates are furnished in Section Nos. 5 and 9 of the Public Management Assistants' Service
Minute published in the Government Gazette No. 1372/23 of 24.12.2004. Any officer who had been appointed to a post in the
Combined Services before 01.01.2004 should have been confirmed in his/her post as per the relevant service minute after fulfilling the
requisites relevant to that service. Provisions of Pubilc Management Assistants’ Service Minute will apply totally for an officer who
has assumed duties in a post after 01.01.2004.
3.0 This examination for officers in Class III of Public Management Assistants' Service will be held in Colombo, Kandy, Galle, M atara,
Jaffna, Mannar, Mullaitivu, Trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala, Anuradhapura, Badulla, Ratnapura and Kilinochchi. The relevant
towns and town numbers are given below.
Town Town No.
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Matara 04
Jaffna 05
Mannar 06
Mullaitivu 07
Trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
Anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Kilinochchi 14
A center without sufficient number of candidates will be cancelled.
4.0 (i) This examination will be conducted by the Commissioner-General of Examinations and the candidates will be bound by the
rules and regulations imposed by him.
(ii) The rules and regulations for candidates have been separately printed in the Gazette Notification. Candidates will be subjected
to any punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations for violation of these rules and regulations.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'02'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2009
272
5.0 The application for this examination should be in the form of specimen appended to this notification. Applicants should prep are
the applications themselves according to the specimen. Applications prepared thus should be sent by the registered post through
the respective Heads of Departments to reach the Commissioner-General of Examinations, Organizations and Foreign Examinations
Branch, Department of Examinations, Pelawatte, Battaramulla on or before 30th March, 2009. The name of the examination should
be indicated in the top left hand corner of the envelope of the application. Applications received after the closing date will be
rejected.
6.0 Identity of the Candidates. – Candidates will be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose, one of the following documents should be submitted to the supervisor :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons,
(ii) A valid Passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above mentioned documents might be cancelled at the discretion of the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
7.0 Applications.– Applications should be prepared in a paper of A4 size in such a manner that Para Nos. 1.0 to 5.0 appear on the first
page. The application could be typewritten but should be filled in correctly and legibly by candidate's own handwriting. Application
should strictly conform to the specimen appended and candidates are advised not to send more than one application or photocopies.
Applications that do not comply with the specimen and that have not been perfected properly will be rejected without notice.
Please indicate the title of the examination appearing the specimen in English Language as well, on both Sinhala and Tamil
application forms. It is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the application form perfected by him/herself complies
with the specimen given in the examination notice and further it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed
application form.
The candidates appearing for the examination for the 1st time need not pay examination fees. However, stamps to the value of
Rs. 90 for the whole examination and stamps to the value of Rs. 50 for a single subject should be affixed for subsequent sittin gs.
The stamps should be duly cancelled by placing signature of the candidate and the date. Under any circumstances, the fees will not
be refunded or transferred in respect of any other examination.
8.0 The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue copies of the timetable and admission cards to all candidates whose
applications have been received. Issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that the candidate is eligible
to sit the examination. Candidates should get their signature on the admission card attested in advance and surrender to the
supervisor of the examination hall. Candidates without admission cards will not be permitted to sit for the examination. A
notification will be published in newspapers by the Department of Examinations as soon as the admission cards are issued to
candidates. If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify  the
Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following in hand at
the time of calling the Department of Examinations : i. e. receipt of registration and in case of applicants outside Colombo, letter
of request, furnishing a fax number to which the admission card should be sent.
9.0 The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the Commissioner -
General of Examinations to enable them to appear for the examination. No traveling expenses will be paid.
10.0 This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums. The officers may sit for this examination either in the language
medium in which they sat for the entry examinations to the service or in one of the official languages. Candidates who entered the
service without a competitive examination may sit for the examination in their medium of education or in one of the official
languages. The language medium of examination, mentioned originally in the application, cannot be changed subsequently.
11.0 Officers may appear separately for each subject at different occasions at their discretion. However they should score at le ast 40%
of the total marks for each subject, for a pass.
12.0 Commissioner-General of Examination will release the results of the examination to the Director General of Combined Service and
names of the successful candidates will be published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
13.0 Examination Procedure.— Candidates should sit for a written examination that will consist of the following subjects :
Subject Subject No. Marks Duration
(i) Office Systems 01 100 01 hour
(ii) Accounting Systems 02 100 01 hour
(iii) Computer Test 03 100 1 1/2 hours

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'02'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2009
273
13.1 Office Systems. – Basic knowledge in office systems adopted in government offices and the ability of practical
application of the knowledge will be tested. Further, the candidates' ability of understanding official correspondence,
ability of indicating observations/ideas precisely and clearly and the skill of drafting letters as per the instructions
given will be tested. This paper will consist of two parts.
Part I – Consists of questions that require short answers. Answers should be provided on the paper itself. Should
answer all the questions. (25 marks).
Part II – A question paper of structured essay type. Should answer 03 out of 04 questions. (75 marks).
13.2 Accounting Systems .– Candidates' knowledge in an understanding of basic accounting procedures adopted in
government offices and the purposes of books and records on financial control will be tested. Paper will consist
of two parts.
Part I – Consists of questions that require short answers. Should provide answers on the paper itself. Should
answer all the questions. (25 marks).
Part II – A question paper of structured essay type. Should answer 03 out of 04 questions. (75 marks).
13.3 Test on Computer Skills.– Objective of this test is to verify the candidate's skills on the following :
Basic concepts of Information Technology
Windows Operating System
File Management
Word Processing Basic skills, Screen Familiarization, Editing Text, Aligning Text, Fonts and Attributes,
Indenting Paragraphs, change of Line Spacing, Tab Settings, Finding and Replacing Text,
Spelling and Grammar, Thesaurus
Working with columns, Page setup
Printing documents, Creating Tables, Sorting text
File Management
Mail Merging
Working with macros
Spreadsheets Basic skills
Formatting
Editing
Columns and ranges, Insertion and Deletion
Sorting data
Creating Charts
Printing
@ Function
Working with Macros, File Management
Databases Introduction, Basic skills
Databases - Creation and application
Forms
Linked forms, Popup forms, Dialog and message boxes
Queries
Sorting
Reports
Working with macros
Presentations/ Basic skills, editing, formatting
Graphics Applying Designs, Inserting images, clip art and graphs slide Transition and effects,
Animations using presentation tools, Preparing Masters, Printing slides and notes
Internet Introduction to Internet, World Wide Web, How to navigate Practical Internet.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'02'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2009
274
E-mail Introduction, basic skills, receiving mail, sending mail, responding to mails
Working with attachments, Creating and using nicknames
Composing messages
This paper consists of two parts. :
Part I – Consists of 40 questions of MCQ type that require short answers. Duration 45 minutes (40 marks).
Part II – 05 semi structured questions. Duration 45 minutes. (60 marks).
Note.– As per Section 5:1:2 of Public Management Assistants' Service Minute, officers who possess computer driving licenses
awarded by National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority or an equivalent or a higher certificate issued by institutions recognized
by Tertiary Education and Vocational Education Commission, which are given in Appendix I, will be exempted from the written tes t on
computer skills.
14.0 The decision of the Director General of Combined Services will be final in any matter not provided for in this notification.
B. P. P. S. A
BEYGUNARATHNA,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Pubilc Administration
and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
15th January, 2009.
Appendix I
The document of computer certificates issued by institutions recognized by Tertiary Education and V ocational Education Commission :
Serial Name of Institute Address of Institute Course
No.
1. Computer Training Center No. 09, Dharmarama Mawatha, Computer Application Assistant
Colombo 06
2. Computer Training Center - NAITA Negembo Road, Malkaduwawa, Kurunegala Computer Application Assistant
3. Computer Training Center - NAITA No. 525/2, Maithiripala Senanayake Computer Application Assistant
Mawatha, Rathnanayakepura,
Anuradhapura
4. Apprenticeship Training Institute No. 581, Galle Road, Katubedda, Computer Application Assistant
Moratuwa
5. Computer Training Center - NAIT A Ratalankawatta, Mapalana, Kamburupitiya Computer Application Assistant
6. Sri Saranankara Apprentice Training Udawatta, Baddegama Computer Application Assistant
Centre - NAITA
7. Computer Training Center - NAIT A Mahaweli Economic Agency Building, Computer Application Assistant
Embilipitiya
8. Computer Education Center Divisional Secretariat Office, Computer Application Assistant
Anguruwathta, Madurawela
9. Technical College W erallawatta, Yakkala, Gampaha Computer Application Assistant
10. Y ovun Nikethanaya Computer Application Assistant
11. V ocational Training Centre National Youth Services Council, Computer Application Assistant
Pallidora Road, Kawdana, Dehiwala
12. National Youth Services Council No. 65, High Level Road, Maharagama Computer Application Assistant
13. Don Bosco Vocational Training Puttal am Road, Nochchiyagama Computer Application Assistant
Centre

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'02'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2009
275
14. Institute of Professional Computer No. 178A, Colombo Road, Ratnapura Com puter Application Assistant
Systems
15. Technology and Computer Training No. 15, 1/1, Piyadasa Sirisena Mawatha, Computer Application Assistant
Institute Maradana, Colombo 10
16. Cholankanda Youth Training Centre Udahenthanna, S. P. O. 20506, Via Computer Application Assistant
Gampola
17. Bishop Leo Technical Institute USCOD Centre, St. Bedes Home, Com puter Application Assistant
Badulla
18. SOS Children's Village of Sri Lanka V ocational Training Centre, Maduruketiya, Computer Application Assistant
Monaragala
19. Beeta Com Multimedia and No. 20, Danovita Road, Meerigama Com puter Application Assistant
Computer Studies
20. Don Bosco Technical Centre No. 22, Don Bosco Mawatha, Ettukala, Computer Application Assistant
Negombo
21. Rathanasela Nenasala Com puter Rathanasela Pirivena, Weegama, Rathmale, Computer Application Assistant
Centre Ku/Itanawatta
22. Navoda Computer Education Institute No. 72, Devananda Road, Navinna, Com puter Application Assistant
Maharagama
23. N. K. I. Computer Training Institute Manahara Building, Pituwala Road, Com puter Application Assistant
Elpitiya
24. Lanka Tech Computer No. 2/52, Horana Road, Piliyandala Com puter Application Assistant
25. Don Bosco V ocational Training Centre Puttala m Road, Nochchiyagama Computer Application Assistant
26. M. D. P. Computer Training Institute No. 64/A/1, Station Road, Kadana Computer Application Assistant
27. Infornet Computer Systems No. 143/1A, Ananda Senanayaka Computer Application Assistant
Complex, Katuwana Road, Homagama
28. Informax Computer Technology No. 52, Matale Road, Galewela Com puter Application Assistant
29. Advance Training Centre (ATC) No. 02, Inginiyagala Road, Ampara Computer Application Assistant
30. Thondaman V ocational Training Centre Saumymoorthi Thondaman Memorial Com puter Application Assistant
Foundation Pool Bank, Hatton
31. Sri Lanka Nippon Education and Mahindarama Road, Ethulkotte, Kotte Com puter Application Assistant
Cultural Center
32. Rural Vocational Training Centre Mudukatuwa, Marawila Computer Application Assistant
33. District Vocational T raining Centre Galigamuwa Town, Ballapana, Kegalle Computer Application Assistant
34. National V ocational Training Centre No. 354, Elvitigala Mawatha, Com puter Application Assistant
Narahenpita, Colombo 05
35. District Vocational Training Centre Saragama, Kurunagala Com puter Application Assistant
36. National Vocational Training Institute No. 100, Kandawala  Road, Ratmalana Computer Application Assistant
37. Rural Vocational Training Centre, Meeta Social Service Foundation, Com puter Application Assistant
Weherahena Weher ahena, Matara
38. District Vocational Training Centre Wattha, Ti ssa Road, Wellawaya Computer Application Assistant
39. Agonsu Training Centre Saranawattha, Nayamulla, Morawaka Computer Application Assistant
40. Special Vocational T raining Centre Higher Computer Training Institute, Com puter Application Assistant
Fort, Matara
41. Kubalgama Sunami V ocational Sri Jinendraramaya, Kubalgama, Com puter Application Assistant
Training Centre W eligama
42. Lakviru Sevana Rural Vocational No. 48, Bodhirukkarama Mawatha, Com puter Application Assistant
Training Centre W ellawaththa, Colombo 06
43. National Vocational Training Institute Niyagama, Thalgaswala Com puter Application Assistant
44. District Vocational Training Centre Mirijjawila, Hambanthota Com puter Application Assistant
45. Rural Vocational Training Centre Erukkalampiddy, Nagavillu, Palavi Computer Application Assistant
Serial Name of Institute Address of Institute Course
No.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'02'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2009
276
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
(For Office use only)
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINA TION AND THE WRITTEN TEST ON COMPUTER SKILLS FOR OFFICERS IN CLASS III OF
PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSIST ANTS' SERVICE – 2008(I)
Town Town No.
1.
2.
(Indicate the town in which you intend to sit the
examination as per Gazette notification) (This cannot be
altered subsequently)
Language medium of examination : Sinhala - 2, Tamil - 3, English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage) (This cannot be changed subsequently)
1.0 1.1 Name with Initials :––––––––––.
(In block capitals) eg : SILVA A. B.
1.2 Name in Full (In block capitals) :––––––––––.
1.3 Name in Full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
2.0 2.1 Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institution (in block capitals) :––––––––––.
2.2 Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institution (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent (In block capitals) :––––––––––.
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Female - 1, Male – 0 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of Birth :   Year                                    Month                        Date
3.3 N. I. C. No.
4.0 Subject/s you are offering now : (Refer Para No. 13.0 of the Gazette notification) :
Serial Subject Subject No.
No.
01
02
03
5.0 Present Post :
5.1 Post :––––––––––.
5.2 Appointment Letter Number :––––––––––.
6.0 6.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :––––––––––.
6.2 If not, value of the stamps affixed :––––––––––.
6.3 Stamp Cage :
Please affix stamps to the value of Rs. 90 for whole Examination and Rs. 50 for only one subject.
N. B.– Candidates should affix stamps to the correct value and cancel them by placing his/her signature and date on them.
Stamps should not overlap when affixed.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'02'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2009
277
I declare that the information furnished above is correct and that I am eligible sit for the examination in the language medium
mentioned above. The stamps affixed are valid and are to the value of Rs. ............... I agree to abide by the rules and reg ulations of this
examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
Note.– Candidate should place his/her signature in the presence of his/her respective Department Head or an officer assigned to
sign on behalf of Department Head.
ATTESTATION OF SIGNATURE
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ............................ who is an employee of my work station and who is personally known to  me
placed his/her signature in my presence on ........................
––––––––––––,
Signature and official stamps of the
person attesting.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
C
ERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEP ARTMENT
I certify that,
(i) The information furnished above were verified and ;
(ii) The officer *has/has not appeared for the examination previously ;
(iii) The officer has appeared for the examination previously and *he/she has affixed stamps to the correct value ;
(iv) He/She is eligible to appear for this examination.
*(Delete inapplicable words)
–––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of the
Head of the Department.
Name :––––––––––,
Designation :––––––––––,
Address :––––––––––,
Date :––––––––––.
02–744
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.