

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.07.2014
1 A
wxl 1873$22 - 2014 cQ,s ui 31 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2014'07'31
No. 1873/22  –  THURSDAY  JULY  31, 2014
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s úfYI
EXTRAORDINARY
1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
 This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
CIVIL  A VIATION  ACT,  No. 14 OF  2010
REGULATIONS made by me as the Minister of Civil Aviation by virtue of powers vested in me under Sub-Section (j) and (p)
of Section 117(2) of the Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010.
PIYANKARA JAY ARATNE,
Minister of Civil Aviation.
At Battaramulla,
24th July  2014.
Regulations
1. These Regulations may be cited as “Regulations on grant of exemptions from the specified
requirements relating to Civil Aviation No. 01 of 2014” and shall come into force on 24th July 2014.
2. Director General of Civil Aviation may, if the circumstances so warrants and safety of civil aviation
is not considered to be compromised by such action, subject to such terms and conditions to be
specified by him exempt any person, aircraft, aeronautical product, aerodrome, airline, flying
training school or device, an organization engaged in engineering, manufacturing or repair work,
aviation related facility and service from conforming to any of the civil aviation requirements
specified in any Regulation, Rule, Implementing Standard or Directive which are hereinafter
referred to as the “Specified requirements”.
3. Before granting an exemption from specified requirements under Regulation (2) to a person or
body corporate who is hereinafter referred to as the “applicant”, Director General of Civil Aviation
shall satisfy himself, in the circumstances of each case that -
a. the requirement has been substantially complied with and further compliance is unnecessary
or not possible, or
b. the action taken or provision made in respect of the matter to which the requirement relates
is as effective or more effective than actual compliance with the specified requirement, or
c. the specified requirements are clearly unreasonable or inappropriate in the particular case,
or
Short title and
date of
operation
Authority
empowered to
grant
exemptions
Situations where
exemptions can
be granted

<!-- page 2 -->

2 A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.07.2014
d. events have occurred that made the specified requirements unnecessary or inappropriate
in the particular case and
e. that the risk to safety will not be significantly increased by the granting of the exemption.
4. Director General of Civil Aviation may grant an exemption from specified requirements under the
Regulation 2 either on application by an applicant or on his own initiative. For the determination
of an application for grant of an exemption from specified requirements, the Director General of
Civil Aviation may call for any document which he considers necessary for such determination.
5. An applicant applying for an exemption from the specified requirements shall furnish to the
Director General of Civil Aviation the following information in writing.
a. the applicant’s name and address
b. details of any relevant authorization,
c. references to the specified requirements in the applicable Regulations, Rules, Implementing
Standards  or Directive from which exemption are sought
d. details of any person, aircraft or aeronautical product, or type of aircraft or aeronautical
product, or material or kind of material, or service or kind of service to be affected by the
exemption.
e. if the exemption will effect a particular kind of operation, details of such operation.
f. the reasons why the exemption in necessary and associated implications if such exemption
is not granted.
g. details of how the applicant proposes to ensure that an acceptable level of safety will be
provided when operating in accordance with the exemption if granted.
h. the date on which the applicant requires the exemption to commence and
i. how long the applicant requires the exemption to remain in effect.
6. Unless Director General of Civil Aviation agrees otherwise, the applicant applying for grant of
exemption must give the application to Director General of Civil Aviation at least three (3) months
before the day on which the applicant requires the exemption to commence.
7. In making his decision either to grant an exemption or renewal of an existing exemption from the
specified requirements Director General of Civil Aviation must pay due attention to the need of
presevation of a level of aviation safety that is at least acceptable as paramount.
8. Director General of Civil Aviation shall not extend the validity of an exemption granted to an
applicant from the requirements in the same or similar terms unless the applicant.
a. applies, in accordance with Regulation 5 for the exemption
b. includes with the application a statement of the additional reasons as to why the exemption
is necessary or the reasons why the continuation of the exemption is necessary.
9. Director General of Civil Aviation may in the interests of the safety of air navigation impose or
specify terms and conditions to be conformed to when granting an exemption from the specified
requirements and such terms and conditions shall be set out in the instrument of exemption to be
singed by him.
10. In the case of an exemption from the specified requirements that was applied for Director General
of Civil Aviation may give written notice to the applicant of :
a. his decision and
b. if the decision was to refuse to grant the exemption or to impose a condition not sought by
the applicant, the reasons for the decision.
Mode and
manner of
granting an
exemption
Applications for
grant of
exemption
Processing time
required
Consideration by
the Director
General of Civil
Aviation
Renewal of
exemption
Terms and
Condition
Notice of grant
of exemption

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.07.2014
3 A
11. The number and nature of exemptions granted under Regulation 10 shall be notified as soon as
practicable in the Gazette and official website of the Civil Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka.
12. An exemption granted from the specified requirements under this Regulation shall cease
a. at the end of the date specified in the instrument of exemption as the date on which it
ceases or
b. If no date is specified for that purpose in the instrument, one year after it commences.
13. An exemption granted to an applicant shall be in the name of that applicant and is not transferable.
14. Notwithstanding Regulation No. 12, the Director General of Civil Aviation may either suspend for
a specified time or cancel the exemption granted from the Specified Requirements if he has
information that the holder of the exemption does not conform to the minimum safety standards.
Such a suspension or cancellation shall be notified to the person to whom the exemption from the
specified requirements forthwith.
08-571
Publication of
an exemption
Validity of an
exemption
Exemptions not
transferable
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Suspension and
cancellation of
exemptions