

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  
ɼ  ලංකා  ȝජාතාǦƵක  සමාජවා Ǐ  ජනරජ ෙɏ  ගැසŸ  පƴ ය 
අƯ ɪෙශෂ   
අංක 2178/5 - 2020  őǧ මස 01 වැǧ සǿදා  - 2020.06.01 
 
No. 2178/5 –  MONDAY, JUNE  01,  2020 
EXTRAORDINARY 
Granting permission by Virtue of powers vested in me Under section 27(A) of Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 
1987  as  the  term  of  the   Sixth  Sabaragamuwa Provincial  Council  of  the  Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of   
Sri  Lanka  ended on  26th  September,  2017. 
 
AN  order  to provide for the services during  the four months from 01 st  January, 2020 to 30th April, 2020, to authorize 
the raising of loans within the province of Sabaragamuwa for the purpose of such service, to make financial provisions in 
respect of certain activities of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council during that four months, to enable the  payment, by 
way of advances out of the  Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council fund or any other fund or monies of,  or at the disposal of, 
the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council fund, and to make provision for matters connected with or incide ntal to the 
aforesaid matter. 
 
Be it enacted by me,  the Governor of the Sabaragamuwa Province of the Democratic Socialist Republic  of Sri 
Lanka as follows. 
 
 1. I do hereby grant permission unto the Chief Secretary and the Accounting Officers of the 
Province to spend Rupees Ten Billion Six Hundred and Fifty Five Million Eight Hundred 
and Forty Thousand  only, (Rs.10,655,840,000/-) and which estimated for the services of the 
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council for the four months duration beginning on 01 st January, 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 
(Published by Authority) 
 
PART IV (A) - PROVINCIAL COUNCILS  
 
Provincial Councils Notifications 
 
SABARAGAMUWA  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL 
 
2020 
 
ANNUAL  FINANCIAL  STATEMENT  AND  REVENUE-EXPENDITURE  ESTIMATES 
 
NOTIFICATION 
 
SABARAGAMUWA PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL 
 
 1A- PG 4991 - 22 (2020/06) 
Granting permission 

<!-- page 2 -->

2 A IV (අ) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2020.06.01 
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.06.2020 
2020  and ending on 30 th April, 2020, by virtue of powers vested in me under section 27(A)  
of Provincial Council Act No. 42 of 1987 as the term of the  Sixth Sabaragamuwa Provincial 
Council ended on 26th September, 2017. 
 
 2. (1) Without prejudice to any other law authorizing any expenditure of the Sabaragamuwa 
Provincial Council which estimate will be Rupees Ten Billion Six Hundred and Fifty 
Five Million Eight Hundred and Forty Thousand  only, (Rs.10,655,840,000/ -) for the 
service of the period beginning on  01st January 2020 and ending on 30th April, 2020, in 
this order referred to as the “four months duration” shall be met. 
 
   (a) For payments which are hereby authorized to be made out of the 
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council fund or monies of or  advance at the 
disposal of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council and, 
 
   (b) For the proceeds of loans which are hereby authorized to be raised, within the 
province of Sabaragamuwa for and on behalf of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial 
Council.  The sum of Rupees Ten Billion Six Hundred and Fifty Five Million 
Eight Hundred and Forty Thousand  only, (Rs.10,655,840,000/-) here in before 
referred to may be duly expended as specified in the first schedule to this 
order. 
 
 (2) The provision of subsection (1) of this section shall have effect without prejudice to the 
provisions of any other written law authorizing the raising of loans for and on behalf of 
the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council. 
 
 3.  (1) The receipts of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council during the first four months of 
the financial year, 2020 from each activity specified in column (iv) of the second 
schedule to this order shall be credited to the account of such activity, the aggregate of 
receipts so credited shall be not less than the minimum limit specified  in the 
corresponding entry in column  (vi) of that schedule . 
  
 4. The expenditure incurred by the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council, during the first four 
months of the financial year 2020 each activity specified in column (iv) of the second 
schedule to this order shall be paid out of the receipt of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial 
Council from such expenditure shall not exceed the maximum limit specified in the 
corresponding entry in column (v) of that schedule. 
 
 5. The debit balance, outstanding at the end of first four months duration of the financial year 
2020 of any activity specified in column (iv) of the second schedule to this order shall not 
exceed the maximum limit specified in the corresponding entry in column (vii) of that 
schedule, and the total liabilities of that activity  at the end of that financial year shall not 
exceed the maximum limit specified in the corresponding entry column (viii) of that 
schedule. 
 
 6. Whenever at any time during first four months of the financial year 2020, the receipts of that 
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council from any activity specified in column (iv) of the second 
schedule to this order are insufficient to meet the expenditure incurred by the Sabaragamuwa 
Provincial Council on such activity, the minister may, from time to time, by order direct that 
such sums may deem necessary to meet such expenditure shall be payable by way of 
advances out of Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council fund or any other fund or monies of or at 
the disposal of, the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council, so however  that the aggregate of the 
sums so advances does not exceed the maximum limit of entry in column (v) of that 
schedule.  Any sums so advanced in respect of such activity shall be refunded to the 
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council fund in such manner as the Governor may by order direct. 
Appropriation for 
the first four 
months of 2020. 
Financial Provision 
in respect of certain 
activities of the 
Sabaragamuwa 
Provincial Council 
for the first four 
months of the year 
2020. 
Advance payments 
out of Provincial 
Council fund or 
any other fund for 
the activities  men-
tioned in the para-
graph 3 during the 
first four months of 
the year 2020. 

<!-- page 3 -->

3A IV (අ) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2020.06.01 
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.06.2020 
 
 7. (1) Any money which, by virtue of the provisions of the first schedule to this order, have 
been allocated to recurrent expenditure under any programme appearing under any head 
specified in that schedule but have not been expended or may likely to be unexpended, 
may be transferred to the allocation of recurrent expenditure or capital expenditure 
under any other programme within that head by order of the Chief Secretary to the 
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council or any other officer authorized by him. 
 
 (2)  Any money allocated to capital expenditure under any programme appearing under any 
head specified in the first schedule to this order shall be transferred out of that 
programme or project only by the Chief Secretary of Sabaragamuwa Provincial 
Council. 
 
 8.  (1) That the receipts from taxes and other sources will be less than the amount anticipated 
to finance authorized expenditure. or; 
 
   (2) That amount originally appropriated for a particular purpose or purposes are no longer 
required; 
 
   He may with the approval of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council, withdraw in whole, 
or in part, any amounts previously released for expenditure under the authority of a 
warrant issued by him from the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council fund or from any 
other fund or monies of or at the disposal of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council. 
 
 9. The Governor may, on or before 31st May, 2021, by order, vary or alter. 
 
 (a) Any of the maximum limits specified in column (v), column (vii) and column (viii)  of 
the second schedule to this order. 
 
 (b) The maximum limits specified in column (vi) of the second schedule to this order. 
 
  No order made under this section shall have effect unless it has been approved by the 
Governor. 
 
  Any such order shall, if so expressed therein  be deemed to have had effect from such 
date prior to the date of making such order as may be specified therein. 
 
 10.  The Governor may amend the second schedule to this order, by adding to the appropriate 
columns of that schedule any activity and, 
 
 (a) All or any of the maximum limits relating to such activity. 
 
 (b) The minimum limit relating to such activity. 
 
 11. This permission will be valid till 30 th day of April 2020  or  upto the date that expires 03 
months from the date of summoning the 07 th Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council or from the 
date  re-start the functions of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council  which occurs first. 
  
    TIKIRI  KOBBEKADUWA, 
    Honourable Governor – Sabaragamuwa province, 
 
29th  day of November, 2019.  
Power to transfer 
unexpected monies 
allocated to recurrent 
expenditure to 
another allocation 
within some 
programme or to 
another programme 
under  the same head 
of expenditure 
Power of Governor 
to vary the 
maximum and 
minimum limits 
specified in the 
second schedule to 
this order 
AUTHORIZATION 
 
I do hereby grant permission to the Chief Secretary and the Accounting Officers of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial 
Council to spend a sum of Rupees Ten Billion Six Hundred and Fifty Five Million Eight Hundred and Fo rty Thousand 
only  (Rs. 10,655,840,000/-) out of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council Fund, which is estimated for the expenses of 
the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council for the four months period that starts on 01 st of January, 2020  and end  on 30 th 
April, 2020,  by virtue of powers vested in me  under Section  27 (a)  of the Provincial Council Act  No. 42 of  1987,  as 
the term of the 06th Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka ended on  26th 
September, 2017. 

<!-- page 4 -->

4 A IV (අ) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2020.06.01 
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.06.2020 
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.  
This permission will be valid  till  30 th April, 2020  or  upto the date that expires 03 months from the date of 
summoning  the 07th Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council  or  from the date  re -starts the functions of the Sabaragamuwa 
Provincial Council  which occurs first. 
 
This permission will be limited to the maximum of revenue collection and imprests for the treasury a llocation 
during the first quarter of the year 2020, as this estimate is made in the nature of a vote on accou nt based on 1/3 of 
revenue targets of the year 2019 and the provisions allocated by the vote on account passed by the parliament for the first 
quarter of the year 2020. 
 
 TIKIRI KOBBEKADUWA, 
 Honourable Governor-Sabaragamuwa Province. 
 
29th  November, 2019. 
 
 
AUTHORIZATION 
 
 I do hereby grant permission to the Chief Secretary and the Accounting Officers of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial 
Council to bear the expenses stated in the Second (II) Schedule, which is estimated for the Advance Account Activities 
of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council for the four months period that starts on 01st of January, 2020  and end  on 30th 
April, 2020,  by virtue of powers vested in me  under Section  27 (a)  of the Provincial Council Act  No. 42 of  1987,  as 
the term of the 06th Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka ended on  26th 
September, 2017. Accordingly, I do hereby grant permission to the Chief Secretary and the Accounting  Officers of the 
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council to bear the expenses subject to those limits. 
 
This permission will be valid  till  30 th December, 2020  or  upto the date that expires 03 months from the date of 
summoning  the 07 th Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council or  from the date  re -start the functions of the Sabaragamuwa 
Provincial Council  which occurs first. 
 
 TIKIRI KOBBEKADUWA, 
 Honourable Governor-Sabaragamuwa Province. 
 
29th  November, 2019. 
 
06-90 