

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
RED LOTUS ORGANIZATION FOR
HUMANITARIAN SERVICES
(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 8 OF 2011
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 22nd March, 2011]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 25, 2011

<!-- page 2 -->

1Red Lotus Organization for Humanitarian
Services (Incorporation) Act, No. 8 of 2011
2—PL 004984–3,070 (07/2010)
[Certified on 22nd March, 2011]
L.D. O. Inc. 4/2010
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  RED  LOTUS  ORGANIZATION  FOR
H UMANITARIAN  SERVICES
WHEREAS an Organization called and known as the
“Red Lotus Organization for Humanitarian Services”
working on Buddhist principles has heretofore been
established for the purpose of preventing and alleviating
suffering of all beings at times of disaster of any nature by
bringing about greater preparedness at national and
international levels through effective coordination,
collaboration and networking and by acting as a resource
bank for humanitarian services based on loving kindness,
compassion, appreciative joy and equanimity;
AND WHEREAS the said Organization has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant such application.
BE IT THEREFORE enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Red Lotus  Organization
for Humanitarian Services (Incorporation) Act, No. 8 of 2011.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons and organizations as are
members for the time being of the Red Lotus Organization
for Humanitarian Services (hereinafter referred to as
“the Organization”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members
of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body
corporate with perpetual succession under the name and style
of “Red Lotus Organization for Humanitarian Services”
(hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”)  and by that
Preamble.
Incorporation of
Red Lotus
Organization for
Humanitarian
Services.
Short title.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Red Lotus Organization for Humanitarian
Services (Incorporation) Act, No. 8 of 2011
name may sue and be sued with full power and authority to
have and use a common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. (1) The general objects of the Corporation shall be to
prevent and alleviate suffering at times of disaster of any
nature by bringing about greater preparedness at local,
national and international levels through effective
coordination, collaboration and networking and by acting
as a resource bank for humanitarian services.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the objects set
out in subsection (1) above, the objectives and functions of
the Organization in particular shall be to —
(a) encourage and promote all forms of humanitarian
activities by member associations with a view to
prevent and alleviate human suffering;
(b) encourage and promote in every country, the
establishment and development of an association
for humanitarian services and inculcation in them
the principles of the Corporation;
(c) create and assist programmes for pre-disaster
preparedness at international, national and local
levels;
(d) raise and mobilize resources for relief, rehabilitation
and reconstruction work and personality
development;
(e) provide relief by all available means to all disaster
victims, without discrimination;
(f) organize, co-ordinate and direct international relief
actions in accordance with the general objects of
the corporation and in co-operation with national
associations and any member associations;
(g) assist in the development of an effective
organizational structure and information
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Red Lotus Organization for Humanitarian
Services (Incorporation) Act, No. 8 of 2011
dissemination infrastructure at local and national
levels;
(h) develop and assist training programmes on
improving disaster management skills, first aid, life
saving skills, trauma counseling, child care
management and short term and long term
rehabilitation programmes at international, national
and local levels and ensure continuity;
(i) develop and maintain a data base and a website
linked with the websites of the national level
associations;
(j) develop close relationship with similar
organizations such as the Red Cross and the Red
Crescent movement;
(k) promote greater awareness regarding humanitarian
services with special reference to youth and
children;
(l) laise and coordinate among member associations
promoting inter-action and friendly relations
among them;
(m ) educate people on the truth that oneness of human
beings stands above secondary factors of diversity;
(n) make representations to government in
promulgation, development and introduction of
humanitarian laws wherever appropriate; and
(o) be the official representative of member associations
at international and national forums as may be
decided by the Executive Committee.
(3) In implementing the objects of this Act as specified in
subsection (1) and (2), the corporation shall ensure that such
implementation is carried out without distinction based on
race, caste, religion, language, or political opinion.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Red Lotus Organization for Humanitarian
Services (Incorporation) Act, No. 8 of 2011
4. (1) The management and administration of the affairs
of the Corporation shall subject to the provisions of this Act
and the rules of the Corporation made under section 6 be
administered by an Executive Committee.
(2) The members of the Executive Committee who are
holding office on the day immediately preceeding the date
of commencement of this Act, shall be the first members of
the Executive Committee and shall hold office until a
committee is elected in accordance with the rules made
under section 6.
5. (1) The Corporation shall have the power to do all
things necessary for, or conducive or incidental to, the
carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred by subsection (1), the Corporation shall have the
following powers and functions:—
(a) to receive or collect gifts, grants, donations,
subsidies and subscriptions, whether in cash or
otherwise from local and foreign sources;
(b) to operate, open and close current, savings or
deposit accounts and to borrow or raise money, with
or without security;
(c) acquire and hold any property movable or
immovable which may be vested in the Corporation
by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary
dispositions or otherwise;
(d) to sell, lease, mortgage, exchange or otherwise
dispose of, any movable or immovable property
belonging to or held by the Corporation, subject to
any trust attached to such property;
(e) to invest the funds vested in or belonging to, the
Corporation in adequate securities as may be
necessary;
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
Powers and
functions.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Red Lotus Organization for Humanitarian
Services (Incorporation) Act, No. 8 of 2011
(f) to erect or cause to be erected, any building or
structure and establish a Secretariat at the
Headquarters of the Corporation;
(g) generally, to do all such other things as are
necessary to facilitate the proper discharge of the
functions of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time, at a general meeting of the Corporation and by majority
of votes of members present and voting to make Rules for
the management of the affairs of the corporation and the
accomplishment of its objects, powers and functions.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred in subsection (1), such rules may make provision
in respect of all or any of the following matters:—
(a) the admission, resignation and expulsion of
members;
(b) the recruitment, appointment and disciplinary
control of staff, servants and other employees and
the appointment of agents and representatives; and
(c) such other matters as are incidental or conducive to
the attainment of the objects, powers and functions
of the Corporation.
(3) The rules, at a like meeting, may be amended, altered
or rescinded by a two third majority of the members present
at the meeting.
(4) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund.
(2) There shall be paid into the Fund all monies received
by way of gifts, bequests, donations, subscriptions,
contributions, fees or grants for and on account of the
Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Red Lotus Organization for Humanitarian
Services (Incorporation) Act, No. 8 of 2011
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums of
money as required to defray any expenditure incurred by
the Corporation in the exercise performance and discharge
of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.
8. All debts and liabilities of the Organization existing
at the time of coming into operation of this Act shall be paid
by the Corporation and all debts due to, and subscriptions
payable to, the Organization shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purposes of this Act.
9. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper books of
accounts to be kept for the income and expenditure, assets
and liabilities and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year  by one or more of
qualified auditors.
(3) In this section“qualified auditor” means—
(i) an individual who being a member of
the Institute of Chartered Accountants
of Sri Lanka or any other institute
established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of  such   Institute; or
(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of
Sri Lanka or of any other institute
established  by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute.
10. (1) The Logo of the corporation shall be the
Red Lotus on a Dhammachakka with words metta,
karuna, mudita and upekkha around the ring of the
Dhammachakka.
Accounts and
audit.
Debts due by
and payable to
Corporation.
The logo and
seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Red Lotus Organization for Humanitarian
Services (Incorporation) Act, No. 8 of 2011
(2) the seal of the corporation shall not be affixed to any
instrument whatsoever except with the authority of the
Executive Council and in the presence of two members of
the Executive Council who shall sign their names to
the instrument in token of their presence, and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person
as a witness.
11. No member of the Corporation shall for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation,
be liable to make any contribution whatsoever.
12. If upon dissolution of the Corporation there remains,
after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities, any
property including money, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other institute or institutions
having objects similar to those of the Corporation and which
is or are by its or their rules prohibited from disturbing any
income or property among its or their members.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic, or any body politic or
corporate.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Saving of the
rights of
Republic and
others.
Limitations of
liability on
Members of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Red Lotus Organization for Humanitarian
Services (Incorporation) Act, No. 8 of 2011
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMATION ,  NO .  163,  KIRULAPONA   MAWATHA ,  POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05  before
  15th December each year in respect of the year following.