

<!-- page 1 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'03'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2019
1A
SOUTHERN PROVINCIAL COUNCIL OF THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
Daycare Center Draft Statute No. ……………  of 2019
I, Hewa Gampalage Manoj Sirisena, Southern Provincial Council Minister of Sports, hereby notify that the Daycare Center
Draft  Statute No. ……………  of 2019 of the Southern Provincial Council will be presented to the Southern Provincial Council
after two weeks of the publication of this notice in the Gazette. If anyone wishes to make any representation regarding this
statute they should be forwarded to me, within two weeks of publication of this notice.
H. G. MANOJ SIRISENA,
Minister of Sport and Youth Affairs,
Rural Development, Cultural and Arts Affairs,
Social Welfare, Probation and Childcare Services,
Women Affairs and Home Economic Promotion,
Housing and Construction and Man power
and Employment.
Southern Provincial Council Ministry of Sports.
01st day of February, 2019.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A – PG4417 – 10 (03/2019)
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) – PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
wxl 2113$68 – 2019 ud¾;= ui 08 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'03'08
No. 2113/68 – FRIDAY, MARCH 08, 2019

<!-- page 2 -->

2A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'03'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2019
Daycare Centre Draft Statute No. …………  of 2019
A draft statute to provide for the registration, supervision, development and administration of the day
care Centres of the Southern Province and provide for other matters connected therewith or incidental
thereto.
Be it enacted by the Southern Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka:
01. This draft statute may be cited as the Daycare Centre Draft Statute No. ………… of 2019 of the
Southern Provincial Council and it (hereinafter referred to as the date of operation) shall come into
operation on such date as the Governor of the Southern Province may give his consent thereto.
02. The Objectives of this statute shall be as follows:
(a) To carry out full supervision in respect of the daycare centres of the province which helps
parents with their children’s care and growth by providing care during any period of time of the
day outside their homes for children from four months to twelve years, and to undertake the full
responsibility of the children during the time when children spend in the Centre.
(b) To creates an environment conducive to the children’s physical and mental development of the
Daycare Centres within the province.
Part I
Establishment of steering board and its powers and functions.
03. There shall be established a steering board (hereinafter referred to as the board ) for the purpose of
implementing the functions of the statute.
04. (1) The board shall consists of –
(a) The ex-office members, namely -
(i) The Secretary of the Ministry in Charge of the subject of Social Welfare, Probation
and Childcare Services of the Province to be the Chairmen;
(ii) The Commissioner of the Department of Social Welfare, Probation and Childcare
Services of the Province to be the Secretary;
(iii) The Commissioner of the Local Government of the Province;
(iv) The Director of Health Services of the Province;
(v) The Director of Education of the Province;
(vi) The Deputy/Assistant Commissioner of the Probation and Childcare Services;
(vii) The Deputy/Assistant Director of Social Welfare;
(viii) Three Senior Probation Officers of Galle, Matara, Hambantota;
(ix) Three child right promotion officers of Galle, Matara, Hambantota;
(x) District childcare officers of the three District of  Galle, Matara, Hambantota;
(b) Three persons to be appointed by the Minister in Charge of the subject in the Province
(hereinafter referred to as appointed members);
(2) A person shall be disqualified from being appointed or continuing as a member of the board if –
(a) he is or become a member of Parliament or a Provincial Council or a local authority;
(b) he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in another Country found or declared to be of
unsound mind;
(c) he is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonment imposed by any court in Sri Lanka or
any other country;
Short Title
and date of
operation.
Objective of the
Statute.
The
Establishment of
steering board.
Composition
and term of
office of the
board.

<!-- page 3 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'03'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2019
3A
(d) he has been declared to be an insolvent or undischarged bankrupt under any law in force in
Sri Lanka or in any other country; or
(e) he has any financial or other interest as is likely to affect prejudicially the discharge by him
of funcitons as a member of the board.
(3) Every appointed member shall hold the office of the board as long as he hold the office in
accordance with which he becomes a member of the board.
(4) ( a) Every appointed member of the board shall unless he vacates office earlier by death,
resignaiton or removal, hold office for three years from the date of his appointment and
shall, unless he has been removed from office be, eligible for reappointment.
(b) The Minister may, where he considers it suitable to do so, for reasons assigned, remove an
appointed member from office.
(c) Any appointed member may at any time resign his office as such member by a letter in that
behalf addressed to the Minister by registered post.
(d) Where any appointed members vacates his office by reason of death, resignation or removal,
the Minister may having regard to the provisions of paragrahp (b), appoint any other
member to succeed that member. A member appointed so shall hold office for the unexpired
period of the term of office of the member whom he succeeds.
(5) No act or decision or proceeding of the board shall be invalidated by reason only of the existence
of a vacancy among its members or any defect in the appointment of a member thereof.
(6) Member of the board may be paid such remuneration as may be determined with the approval of
the Governor.
(7) 1. Meetings of the board shall be held at least once in every three month. However, the
Minister or at least seven members of the board may request the Secretary of the board to
call a special meeting of the aboard, and he shall summon a special meeting of the board
within seven days from the date of the request.
2. The Secretary of the board shall give every member seven days prior notice of the meeting
in writing.
3. The quorum for every meeting shall be seven members.
4. The chairman shall preside at every meeting of the board, in the absence of the chairman
from any such meeting the members present at the meeting shall elect from among themselves
an ex-office member to preside at that meeting.
5. Where, at a meeting of a board, voting results in a tie, the person presiding such meeting
shall, in addition to his own vote, have a casting vote.
6. Subject to the provisions of this statute, the board may regulate the procedure in regard to
meetings and the transactions of business of such meetings.
(8) The board shall discharge the following functions.
(a) To provide guidelines and assistance for the improvement of the standards of daycare
centers.
(b) To require by rules, minimum standards for daycare centers.
(c) To require by rules, minimum educational and vocational qualifications which the staff of
the daycare centre should have.
Any act not
to be invalid
due to vacancies
Remuneration of
members of the
board meetings
of the board
Functions of the
board

<!-- page 4 -->

4A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'03'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2019
(d) To require by rules, such standards as may be necessary for providing care for children with
special needs.
(e) To make such rules, as may be necessary for achieving the objectives of this statute.
Part II
Establishment of daycare centres -
(9) 1. The Secretary of a Daycare centre hereinafter defined shall make an application to the
commissioner on a prescribed form for the registration of that daycare centres.
2. The Commissioner may request from the applicant such information or documents as he
may considers to be necessary for the purpose of looking into whether the daycare centre
for which an application for registration is made is subject to the terms and conditions of
this statute.
(10) 1. There shall be a governing body (hereinafter referred to as the committee) consisting of
Chairman, Vice Chairman, Secretary, Treasurer for the purpose of maintaining a daycare
centre.
(a) a person shall be disqualified from being appointed or continuing as a member of the
committee, if  he
(i) is or becomes a member of parliament or any provincial council or any local
authority,
(ii) is an officer appointed for duties in respect of child affairs by Judicial Service
Commission or an officer or police officer of a Ministry, Department, Institution
or Authority engaged in supervision or duties in respect of childcare services,
or
(iii) is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any other country, found or declared to
be of unsound mind, or
(iv) is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonment imposed by any court in
Sri Lanka or any other country, or
(v) is a person who has not been acquitted and discharged after trial by a court in
respect of child abuse and delinquency, or
(vi) is a person who has been declared an insolvent or undischarged bankrupt
under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any other country, or
(vii) Has any financial or other interest as is likely to affect prejudicially the discharge
by him of his functions as a member of the committee.
(b) The Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer shall be citizens of Sri Lanka, and at least
three persons of the members shall be residents in the Divisional Secretary’s Division
in which the daycare Centre is situated.
(c) At least three persons of the members of the committee shall be parents whose
children attend the daycare Centre, and the chief matron of the daycare Centre shall
be the Secretary of the committee.
2. Activities of the daycare Centre shall be carried out in accordance with such standards as
may be prescribed by the board by such rules as may be referred to in Para (b), (c) and (d) of
Section 8.
(11) Where the commissioner receives an application or a complaint to the effect that a daycare Centre
is operated without approval, a probation officer or any other officer authorized by the
commissioner shall be required to submit a report on following facts within four weeks.
Applications for
Registration of
Daycare
Centres
Requirement for
Registration
Reports

<!-- page 5 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'03'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2019
5A
(a) Whether that Daycare Centre provides the maximum welfare of its children; and
(b) Whether that Daycare Centre has acted in accordance with the terms and conditions stipulated
under Sub section (10).1 and (10).2.
(i) At Least Fifty percent of the standards imposed under Subsection (10).2 shall be
completed.
(ii) The Secretary shall enter into an agreement with the Commissioner with regard to the
fact that the balance of the standards requirement is completed before expiry of two
years from the date of registration of the said Daycare Centre.
(12) Where the report under Section 11 is received, the Commissioner or any other Officer Authorized
by him may enter that Daycare Centre at any time to inspect whether that Daycare Centre provide
the services for the Welfare and Protection of the Children of that Daycare Centre and whether
that Daycare Center acts in accordance with the expected standards.
(13) The Commis sioner shall take action to register that Daycare Centre within Six months from the
date of submission of the application if the Commissioner reasonably satisfies himself after the
inspection under the section 12.
(14) (1) The Commissioner shall issue to the Secretary of the Daycare Centre a certificate of
registration in the prescribed form for the Registration of the Daycare Centre after the
prescribed fee is paid. Such certificate of registration shall be valid for a period two years.
(2) Where an agreement is entered into under Sub paragraph (11)(b).i, a provisional certificate
of registration which is valid for only Six month shall be issued.
(3) Any certificate of registration issued under Sub sections (1) and (2) cannot be transferred to
any person, and accordingly such a transfer is null and void.
(4) Every certificate issued under Sub sections (1) and (2) shall be exhibited on the head office
or the complex of the Daycare Centre at all times by the person authorized by that certificate.
(5) The commissioner shall maintain a register in the prescribed form consisting of the name,
address, registration number and date of the Daycare Centre and such other information as
the commissioner may consider necessary in respect of the Daycare Centre which are
registered by issuing certificates by the Commissioner.
(6) The Commissioner shall, where necessary submit to the meetings of the board a report in
respect of the Daycare Centres which he has registered under Subsections (1) and (2).
(15) Any Person holding a certificate issued under this statute, hall within 30 days of such change
inform the Commissioner of any change of any particulars in the application for registration under
this stature.
(16) 1. ( a) An application shall be made to the Commissioner in a prescribed form for renewal of
registration three calendar months prior to the expiry of validity period of a certificate of
registration issued under this statute out - lining, if any alterations to the information
provided for the registration of the expiring certificate of registration.
Inspections
Registration
Issue of the
certificate of
registration.
The commi-
ssioner to be
informed of any
change in
informaion in
the application
for registration
Renewal of
certificaties.

<!-- page 6 -->

6A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'03'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2019
(b) If the commissioner is satisfied that the prescribed standard are met, he shall renew the
registration after payment of the prescribed fee.
(2) ( a) An application is made to the commissioner in a prescribed form for registration a
calendar month prior to the expiry of the provisional certificate of registration issued
under this statute out lining, if any alterations the to the information provided for the
registration of the expiring certificate of registration.
(b) If the Commissioner is satisfied that such factors as may be necessary to comply with
the stipulated standards is making progress towards completion, the provisional
registration shall be renewed as valid for six months. Action shall be taken to get the
provisional registration renewed once in every Six month until the end of contractual
period.
(17) (1) The Commissioner shall have the following powers in respect of the Daycare Centre which
he has registered.
(a) To enter and inspect at any reasonable time of the day the places within which Daycare
Centres are operated.
(b) To require the Secretary of any Daycare centers within the province to provides records
and information.
(c) To register Daycare Centres operated in the province.
(d) To provide assistance for the maintenance of Daycare Centres, if the Commissioner
reasonable satisfy himself.
(e) To implement seminars, workshops and training programs for matrons of the Daycare
Centre.
(2) Where the Commissioner considers it necessary to delegate to any officer performing duties
under him any of his powers conferred by this statute for the efficient implementation of
provisions of the statute; the Commissioner may delegate any of such power to the said
officer.
(18) (1) No person shall establish or operates a Daycare Centre except under the authority of a
certificate of registration issued under this statute and in conformity with terms and conditions
thereof from the date of commencement of this statute or thereafter.
(2) Any person who operates a Daycare Centre prior to the date of implementation of this
statute may operate it for a period of Six months from the date on which this statute comes
into effect and but an application is made for registration and a certificate shall be obtained
under the provision this statute.
(19) Where it is revealed by the inspection done under section 12 on receipt of the report under
section II that the requirements in paras under sub section (10) 1. And (10) 2. and sub paras has
not been met, the Commissioner shall inform the Secretary of the committee that the Daycare
Centre cannot be registered.
(20) Where the Secretary of the Daycare Centre who is not satisfied with the notice to reject the
registration issued by the Commissioner shall submit an appeal to the secretary (hereinafter
referred to as secretary of the Ministry) of the Minister in charge of the subject in the province
within fourteen days from the date of that notice.
(21) (1) The Secretary of the Ministry or body of persons consisting of Three officers holding posts
comparable or superior to the post of the Commissioner or three pensioners holding such
posts appointed by the Secretary of the Minsitry shall hold an inquiry.
Power of the
Commissioner.
A Daycare Centre
not to be
operated without
a certificate of
registration.
Rejection of
registration
An appeal to be
submitted to the
secretary of the
Ministry
Decision by the
secretary of the
Minister with
regard to appeals

<!-- page 7 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'03'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2019
7A
(2) The decision of the inquiry shall be as follows.
(a) To inform the secretary of the daycare Centre in writing of reasons to reject the
registration of the daycare Centre.
(b) To advice the commissioner to take necessary action to register the daycare Centre.
(c) To provide concessionary period not more than a year under paragraphs and sub
paragraphs of sub section (10). 1, and (10). 2 and to advise the commissioner to
approve the registration of the daycare Centre if it is so fulfilled.
(22) Any party which is not satisfied with a decision given under section 21 may submit an appeal to
the Minister within fourteen days from the date of the decision.
(23) Where an appeal is received under Section 22, a body of persons consisting of three public
officers holding posts comparable or superior to the post of the secretary of the Ministry of three
retired officers holding such posts shall hold an inquiry with regard to the appeal and the Minister
shall give his decision in accordance with sub sections 21 (22) (a), (b) or (c) and the report of the
inquiry.
(24) The secretary of the daycare Centre shall be the only person capable of acting with the department
with regard to all matters of the daycare Centre.
Part  III
Administration of the daycare Centre and other matters relevant thereto.
(25) The secretary, committee and staff of the daycare Centre shall follow or implement such instruction
or orders as the commissioner or any officer authorized by him may give in respect of the welfare
of the children of daycare Centre or respect of its administration.
(26) 1. The commissioner or such other officer as may be authorized by him may by notice in
writing require the secretary of a daycare Centre to provide any information or returns
within the time specified in such notice.
2. Where such information or returns are provided by the secretary of the daycare Centre he
shall avoid providing incorrect or false information.
Part  IV
Cancellation of the registration of a daycare Centre
(27) If the commissioner reasonably satisfies himself after an inquiry held by him in the following
occasions, he may cancel a certificate of registration issued under this statute.
(a) On an occasion when a resolution in respect of which the daycare Centre cannot be carried
on is passed and the commissioner has been informed thereof.
(b) After the holder of a certificate is given an opportunity to shows causes where the
commissioner is satisfied that the holder of a certificate or the committee or the staff of a
daycare Centre has contravened any order or rule or provision or has defaulted on the
implementation of instructions or orders given by the commissioner or any officer authorized
by him or has defaulted the provision of Information or returns prescribed or has provided
incorrect or false information.
Appeals may be
submitted to the
Minister
The decision by
the Minister
in respect of
appeals
Secretary to act
for the
committee
Instruction to be
followed and
orders to be
carried out
Information and
returns to be
provided
Cancellation of
registration

<!-- page 8 -->

8A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'03'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2019
(c) On an occasion when intended standards are not met even though the contractual period
with the commissioner has expired where provisional certificate of registration has been
issued under above Sub section (14). 2
(28) Where the commissioner decides to cancel registration of a daycare Centre under paras 27(a), (b)
and (c), he shall inform the secretary of a daycare Centre thereof within thirty days from the date
of that decision.
(29) Where the secretary of a daycare Centre who is not satisfied with the notice of the cancellation of
registration issued by the commissioner may make appeal to the secretary of the Ministry within
seven days from the date of the notice.
(30) 1. Where the secretary of the Ministry receives an appeal under section 29 the secretary of the
Ministry shall follow the one of the following processes after an inquiry held by him or a
body of three persons appointed by him consisting of three public officers holding such
posts as may be comparable or superior to the post of the commissioner or three retired
officers who held such posts.
(a) To confirm the cancellation of registration.
(b) To annual the decision of the commissioner in respects of the cancellation of registration.
2. The secretary of a daycare Centre shall be informed of the decision of the secretary of the
Ministry with a copy to the commissioner within a month of the receipt of the appeal.
(31) A party  which is not satisfied with a decision given under Sub section (30). 1. may within seven
days from the date of that decision, make an appeal to the Minister for the final decision.
(32) Where an appeal is received under Sub section (31), a board of three public officers holding posts
comparable or superior to the posts of the secretary of the Ministry or three retired public officers
who held such posts shall hold an inquiry into the appeal and the Minister shall, in accordance
with the report of   that inquiry inform the secretary of the daycare Centre in writing of his decision
under Para (30). (a) or (b) with a copy to the commissioner within a month from the date of the
receipt of the appeal.
Part  V
To prescribe standards for daycare Centres.
(33) The board shall make rules for prescribing relevant standards in respect of opening hours of the
daycare Centre, physical facilities of the daycare Centre activity plan for the children, minimum
staff and such other matters as may be considered to be necessary.
(34) No person shall be qualified for the appointment for a post of a daycare Centre except with such
minimum standards as may be prescribed by rules for each post of the staff of the daycare Centre.
(35) The commissioner shall maintain for the staff of a daycare Centre a register with names and
qualifications.
(36) The commissioner shall maintain an institute under him to conduct courses or training programs
for the staffs of daycare Centres.
Notice to cancel
registration.
Appeals to be
made to the
secretary of the
Ministry.
Decision of the
secretary with
regard to the
appeal.
An appeal may
be made to the
Minister.
Decision of the
Minister with
regard to an
appeal.
The board to
make rules in
respect of
standards.
Qualifications of
the staff.
A register to be
maintained for
the staff.
An institute
conducting
training courses
for staffs to be
maintained.

<!-- page 9 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'03'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2019
9A
(37) The commissioner shall maintain a register to enter names and course details of private educaional
institutes conducting such courses and training programs as the board may consider to be
suitable for the members of staffs of daycare Centre to follow for or in addition to the courses
conducted by the institute established under section 3. b.
Part  VI
Offences and penalties
(38) Where a person or a committee has
(a) Contravened the provisions of this statute, used funds contrary to the objectives of this
statute; or misused funds;
(b) Has neglected to furnish any information or returns to be submitted in accordance with an
order made under this statute.
(c) Knowingly included fales information in such information or returns to be provided;
(d) has neglected to comply with the provisions this statute or any direction or order given
there under,
such person or each member of such committee has committed an offence.
(39) A person who commits any offence under this statute shall be guilty of an offence and on
conviction after summary trial before a magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding
Rupees Twenty Five Thousand or to a imprisonment of either description for a period not exceeding
three months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
Part VII
(40) ( a) The Minister may make regulations to implement and enforce any provisions of this statute.
(b) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into
operation on the date of such publication on such later date as may be specified in the
regulation.
(c) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be brought before the Provincial Council. Any
such regulation which is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date
of its disapproval, but without prejudice to anything previoulsly done thereunder.
(41) ( a) The board may make rules in respect of all matters required by this statute to be prescribed
or in respect of which rules are authorized by this statute to be made.
(b) The rules made by the board shall be published in the Gazette by the Minister, and shall
come into force on the date of its publication in the Gazette or any such later date as may be
specified in such publication.
(42) In this statute, unless the context otherwise requires -
 “Governor” means the Governor of the Southern Province;
 “Minister” means the Minister in charge of the subject of Social Welfare, Probation and
Childcare Services of the Provincial Council;
 “Secretary of the Ministry” means the Secretary of the Ministry of the minister in charge of
the subject of Social Welfare, Probation and Childcare Services of the Provincial Council.
 “Commissioner” means the Commissioner of the Department of Social Welfare, Probation
and Childcare Services of the Provincial Council.
A register to be
maintained in
respect of
private
educational
institute
conducting
Training
programs for
staffs.
Offences.
Penalties
Power of the
Minister to make
orders
Power of the
committee to
make rules

<!-- page 10 -->

10A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'03'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2019
 “Department” means the Department of Social Welfare, Probation and Childcare Services of
the Provincial Council.
 “Province” means the Southern Province of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
 “Provincial Council” means the Southern Provincial Council established under the Provincial
Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987.
 “Child ” means persons from four (4) months to twelve (12) years of age;
 “Child with special needs ” means a persons from four (4) months to twelve (12) years of age
who has turned into the position referred to in the meaning given to the person with
disabilities in the Act, No. 28 of 1996 for the registration of persons with disabilities.
 “Prescribed ” means prescribed by regulations made under this statute.
(43) In the event of inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil text of this statute, the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
03 – 1163
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency