

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'12'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.12.2020
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2208$33 - 2020 foieïn¾ ui 31 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2020'12'31  
No. 2208/33  -  THURSDAY,    DECEMBER   31,  2020
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Proclamations &  C., by the President
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A-  G  33462 — 380  (01/2021)
 Seal GOTABAYA RAJAPAKSA
PRESIDENTIAL  DIRECTIVE
ESTABLISHMENT of a Presidential Task Force for National Deployment and Vaccination Plan for COVID-19 Vaccine in
accordance with the powers vested in HIS EXCELLENCY THE PRESIDENT by Article 33 of the Constitution of Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka.
To :-
1. Lalith Weeratunga Esquire
Principal Advisor to the President
2. Major General Dr. Sanjeewa Munasinghe Esquire
Secretary, Ministry of Health
3. Dr. Amal Harsha de Silva Esquire
Secretary, State Ministry of Primary Health Care, Epidemics and
COVID Disease Control
4. K. R. Uduwawala Esquire
Secretary, State Ministry of Production, Supply and Regulation of Pharmaceuticals
5. General Shavendra Silva Esquire
Commander, Sri Lanka Army /Head of the COVID – 19 Task Force
6. Dr. Prasanna Gunasena Esquire
Chairman, State Pharmaceuticals Corporation
7. Dr. Anuruddha Padeniya Esquire
Pediatric Neurologist / President, Government Medical Officers’ Association
8. Dr. Asela Gunawardena Esquire
Director General of Health Services

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'12'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.12.2020
2A
Greetings !
Whereas, the COVID-19 outbreak, causing enormous pressure on national health systems and disrupting the
economic and social progress of citizens, has been declared a pandemic by the World Health Association in March 2020;
Whereas, 41,054 confirmed COVID-19 cases and 194 deaths have been reported in Sri Lanka as of 28th December,
2020;
Whereas, immunization of the population by a safe and efficacious vaccine is considered the most effective and
lasting method to enhance immunity and contain the disease spread;
Whereas, the timely and efficient delivery of such vaccine to achieve population immunity to COVID-19 is a
paramount need facing the country at present;
And Whereas, a concerted high level national intervention is required to achieve coordination and collaboration
among relevant government agencies and stakeholders at national, district and local levels for effective deployment of
vaccines and vaccination;
Whereas, Secretary to the Health Ministry is authorized to determine the protocols and sources of procurement;
Now, therefore, I, Gotabaya Rajapaksa, President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka reposing great
trust and confidence in your prudence, ability and fidelity appoint you, the said;
1. Lalith Weeratunga Esquire
Principal Advisor to the President
2. Major General Dr. Sanjeewa Munasinghe Esquire
Secretary, Ministry of Health
3. Dr. Amal Harsha de Silva Esquire
Secretary, State Ministry of Primary Health Care, Epidemics and COVID Disease Control
4. K. R. Uduwawala Esquire
Secretary, State Ministry of Production, Supply and Regulation of Pharmaceuticals
5. General Shavendra Silva Esquire
Commander, Sri Lanka Army /Head of the COVID - 19 Task Force
6. Dr. Prasanna Gunasena Esquire
Chairman, State Pharmaceuticals Corporation
7. Dr. Anuruddha Padeniya Esquire
Pediatric Neurologist / President, Government Medical Officers’ Association
8. Dr. Asela Gunawardena Esquire
Director General of Health Services
as the members of the Presidential Task Force for National Deployment and Vaccination Plan for COVID-19 Vaccine to execute
the below-mentioned tasks.
(a) Identify a safe and efficacious COVID-19 vaccine(s) that is most appropriate for Sri Lanka in consultation with
technical experts and on available evidence.
(b) Establish appropriate and streamlined regulatory and administrative procedures for emergency approval, fast track
procurement, imports, customs clearances and release to the national immunization programme in order to facilitate
timely access to COVID-19 vaccines.
(c) Collaborate with relevant embassies, donors, UN Agencies and professional groups for technical and material
support.
(d) Identify and prioritize population groups who are at higher risk from COVID-19 for vaccination in the first phase, and
thereafter sequence the delivery for the general public.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'12'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.12.2020
3A
(e) Formulate and implement a COVID-19 vaccine deployment and vaccination plan including inter alia clear respon-
sibilities, standard operating procedures and time-lines for participating stakeholders, chain of reporting and man-
agement structures.
(f) Assess existing supply chain systems in order to identify and address gaps, such as in storage, distribution,
temperature monitoring and tracking and reporting vaccine stocks.
(g) Establish a robust supply chain information system on stock management and distribution that includes monitoring
and reporting of vaccine utilization.
(h) Devise appropriate logistics plan for the roll out of the vaccination plan, including identification of locations for
vaccination, vaccination teams, procurement of required equipment, consumables and their distribution, cold chain
capacities and storage of the vaccine, and monitor its implementation.
(i) Identify the human resources, technology, and budgetary requirements to ensure timely delivery of vaccines and
vaccination.
(j) Regularly review global information related to COVID-19 vaccines and incorporate it, where appropriate, into the
planning and preparation for COVID-19 vaccine deployment and vaccination processes.
(k) Enforce a vaccination vigilance plan to record and monitor the process of vaccination and report adverse events in
real-time.
(l) Ensure proper training for supply chain and health staff for the successful and timely deployment of vaccines and
vaccination and liaise with relevant experts and agencies to ensure quality of training.
(m) Establish a public communication mechanism to report on the progress of the vaccine deployment and vaccination
strategy.
AND, I appoint Lalith Weeratunga Esquire, Principal Advisor to the President,
as the Chairman of the Presidential Task Force for National Deployment and Vaccination Plan for COVID-19 Vaccine,
AND. Ms. Chandima Wickramasinghe, Additional Secretary to the President as the Secretary of the said Task
Force.
AND, I do hereby authorize the Presidential Task Force for National Deployment and Vaccination Plan for COVID-19
Vaccine to issue directions, make inquiries, and investigate such matters as may be necessary in relation to the execution of
tasks hereby entrusted.
AND, I do hereby require and direct all public officers and such other persons to whom the Presidential Task Force for
National Deployment and V accination Plan for COVID-19 Vaccine may issue instructions or apply for assistance for informa-
tion, to comply with such instructions, render all such assistance and furnish all such information as may properly be
complied with, rendered and furnished, in that behalf.
AND, I do hereby require and direct the Presidential Task Force for National Deployment and Vaccination Plan for
COVID-19 Vaccine to report to me all instances where any Government employee or an officer in any Ministry, Government
Department, State Corporation or any such Institution who delay the performance of duties and fulfillment of responsibilities
or fail to perform such duties and responsibilities to be entrusted by the said Task Force.
AND, I do hereby direct the Presidential Task Force for National Deployment and Vaccination Plan for COVID-19
Vaccine to submit reports to me from time to time.
Given at Colombo under the Seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the 28
th day of December Two
Thousand and Twenty.
By His Excellency’s Command,
P. B.  JAYASUNDERA,
 Secretary to the President.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.