

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'09'01
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.09.2015
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1930$12 - 2015 iema;eïn¾ ui 01 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2015'09'01
No. 1930/12  -  TUESDAY   SEPTEMBER  01,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
MINUTE  OF  SRI   LANKA   TECHNOLOGICAL  SERVICE
FOLLOWING Minute of the Sri Lanka Technological Service is hereby substituted without prejudice to any action taken
or purported to be taken in terms of the Minute of the Sri Lanka Technological Service published in the Gazette
Extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1426/34 dated 06th January 2006 and revisions
made to the same from time to time.
                                                On the order of Public Service Commission,
T. M. L. C. SENARATHNE,
Secretary,
Public Service Commission,
12th February 2015.
Minute of Sri Lanka Technological Service
1. Effective Date  :
This Service Minute shall be effective from 01.06.2013.
2. Particulars of the Appointing Authority  :
2.1 Appointing Authority: Training Grade, Grade III, Grade II and Grade I - Secretary of the respective Ministry/
Head of the Department Special Grade- Public Service Commission
3. Service Category/Service Categories  :
Supervisory Management Assistant- Technological
Management Assistant- Supra Grade
3.1 Grades: Grade III
Grade II
Grade I
Special Grade

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'09'01
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.09.2015
2A
4. General Definition of the Role Entrusted to  :
A service category which performs the activities in the nature of multi-tasks including the tasks such as
supervision, direction and management of Financial, Human, Physical, Material, Technical data and resources
which are supportive to the role of the executives of the institutions who are required to obtain a training on the
knowledge on technology connected to practical subjects organized on scientific principles and supplementary
to professional services such as engineering, scientific, agriculture and animal production, which are the
management services on training and experience.
5. Salaries  :
5.1 Salary Code Number: Grade III, 11,1 -MN3-2006A
Special Grade- MN7-2006A
5.2 Salary Scale :
Grade 
III, 11,1 -
Rs. 15,005/-4xI80-6x240-1Ix320-20x360- Rs.27,885/-
Special Grade-
Rs.20,030/-11x365-18x500-Rs33,045/-
5.3 Initial Salary step applicable to grading system :
Grade Initial salary step Salary point (Rs)
Grade III 1 Rs. 15,005/-
Grade III 12 Rs.17,485/-
Grade I 23 Rs.21,045/-
Special Grade 4 Rs.21,125/-
5.4 Allowance for Training Grade, as per Public Administration Circular 06/2006 (11):-
1st Year- Rs. 12,920.00
2nd Year- Rs. l3,040.00
6. Posts belonging to the Service  :
06.1 Approved Designations, approved number of Posts and Grades:
The posts approved by the Department of Management Services as posts of Sri Lanka Technological
Service, under the V ote of each Ministry, Department, and Institution shall belong to this service.
Role entrusted to each post shall be mentioned in the Scheme of Recruitment relevant to the post.
6.2 Combined number of Officers:
For the purpose of promotions from grade to grade, III, II and I shall be treated as belonging to the
Combined Number of Officers. An approved cadre for special grade shall be maintained separately depending
on the exigency of service outside the above cadre.
6.3 Nature of the Post : Permanent and pensionable

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'09'01
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.09.2015
3A
7. Method of Recruitment :
7.1 Ratio of Recruitment
Stream Percentage
Open 70%
Limited 30%
Merit Not applicable
Note: I. 70% of vacant posts exists in combined number of officers of Grade III, II and I, shall be filled from
an open competitive examination which is held for external candidates.
II. At such instances where sufficient internal candidates with basic qualifications are not found within
the relevant Department/Ministry to fill the percentage to be recruited from limited competitive
examination, remaining number shall be filled strictly by the external candidates who are selected
from the open competitive examination.
III. If the number of vacancies is less than 3, recruitments shall be made only under Open stream.
7.2. Recruitment under Open Stream
7.2.1 Recruitment Grade :
7.2.1.1 T raining Grade: (Training period of two years)
Shall have passed G .C.E. (A/L) examination in three subjects in Science/Mathematics/
Technology stream, including two subjects related to the field, at one sitting. (Subjects related
to each post shall be mentioned in the Scheme of Recruitment)
and
Shall have passed G . C. E. (O/L) examination in six subjects (06) with credit passes for Sinhala/
Tamil/English language, Science, Mathematics and another subject, at one sitting.
7.2.1.2 T raining Grade: (Training Period of One Year)
(a) Educational Qualifications-
Shall have passed G.C.E. (A/L) examination in three subjects in Science/Mathematic/
Technology stream, including two subjects related to the field, at one sitting. (Subjects
related to each post should be mentioned in the Scheme of Recruitment)
and
Shall have passed G . C. E. (O/L) examination in six subjects (06) with credit passes for
Sinhala/Tamil/English language, Science, Mathematics and another subject, at one sitting.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'09'01
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.09.2015
4A
(b) Professional Qualifications :
(I) Shall have possessed National Certificate in Technology, following successfully
a course in a field relevant to the post, from a Technical College recognized by
Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission
(EX: National Certificate in Technology: Civil/Electrical/Mechanical)
(II) Shall have possessed the relevant certificate, successfully following a full time
course of one year in Draftsmanship from a Technical College recognized Tertiary
and V ocational Education Commission
                                    Or
(III) Shall have possessed the relevant certificate, successfully following the National
Certificate Course for Industrial Technicians in a field relevant to the post from a
Technical College recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education
Commission
Or
(IV) Shall have possessed any other Technological qualifications recognized by Tertiary
and V ocational Education Commission as being equivalent in each and every way
to the Technological qualifications mentioned above after obtaining views of the
Institutions such as Ministry of Higher Education and other Institutions by which
the above certificates issued.
Note:- I. At the instances where recruitments are made through both direct recruitments to
Grade III and recruitments to training grade recruitment shall be first made to
Grade III which is the recruitment grade
II. Where the number of candidates who become qualified to Grade III which is the
recruitment grade is not sufficient, the remaining vacancies shall be filled by the
candidates who satisfy’ qualifications for recruitment to training grade.
7.2.1.3 Grade III (Open)
(a) Educational Qualification:
(I) Shall have passed G.C.E. (A/L) examination in three subjects in Science/
Mathematics/Technology stream, including two subjects related to the field relevant
to the post, at one sitting. (Subjects related to each post should be mentioned in
the Scheme of Recruitment)
and
Shall have passed G . C. E. (O/L) examination in six subjects (06) with credit passes
for Sinhala/Tamil/English language, Science, Mathematics and another subject, at
one sitting.
(b) Professional Qualifications:
(i) National Diploma in Technology awarded by the University of Moratuwa or
Hardy Technical College Ampara
or

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'09'01
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.09.2015
5A
(ii) National Diploma in Engineering awarded by the National Apprenticeship and
Industrial Training Authority.
or
(iii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering awarded by the Ministry of Education
and Higher Education.
or
(iv) Two years Diploma in Agriculture awarded by an Institution recognized Tertiary
and V ocational Education Commission.
or
(v) Diploma in Technology awarded by the Open University of Sri Lanka. or
(vi) Successful completion of part I of the Engineering examination conducted by
the Sri Lanka Institute of Engineers.
or
(vii) Completion of level 6 of National V ocational Qualification (NVQ), related to
the field
(viii) Any other Technological qualifications recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational
Education Commission as being equivalent in each and every way to the
Technological qualifications mentioned above after obtaining views of the
Institutions such as Ministry of Higher Education and other Institutions by which
the above certificates issued.
Note: Action shall be taken to include in to procedures of recruitment a segment/
segments which are suitable to the requirement of the institution and so as to be
relevant to the post out of 7.2.1.1, 7.2.1.2, 7.2.1.3. One or several qualifications
out of professional qualification mentioned in , 7.2.1.2 (b) and 7.2.1.3 .(b) shall
be selected and included in to relevant Scheme of Recruitment.
7.2.2 Physical Fitness
Shall have the physical fitness to serve in any part of the island and to perform the duties of the
post.
7.2.3 Other :
I. Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka
II. Shall be of excellent character
III. No person who is ordained in any religious order shall become eligible to sit the
examination
IV . Candidates are deemed to have possessed qualifications to sit the competitive examination
for recruitment to the service only if they have satisfied all the qualifications and the prescribed
age limit in each and every aspect, as at the date prescribed in the notification for calling
applications.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'09'01
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.09.2015
6A
7.2.4 Age :
7.2.4.1 The Minimum Age Limit : Not less than 18 years
7.2.4.2 The Maximum Age Limit : Not over 30 years
7.2.5 Method of Recruitment : Recruitments shall be made on the results of a written examination and a
general interview. Qualified candidates shall be selected by calling for a general interview, a number
of candidates equivalent to the number of recruitments expected to be made on the order of the
merit determined on the aggregate of marks secured at the examination by the candidates who have
passed the written examination
7.2.5.1 W ritten Test
Subjects Maximum marks Pass mark
Intelligence test 100 40%
Subject  related 100 40%
Technological Test
(Syllabus shall be mentioned in the relevant Scheme of Recruitment)
7.2.5.1.1 Conducting Authority :
Appointing Authority shall mention authority for conducting the written examination in
each Scheme of Recruitment
7.2.5.2 Professional Test : Not applicable
7.2.5.3 Expected objectives to be achieved at General Interview :
Marks shall not be allocated and only verification of qualifications shall be made.
7.2.5.3.1 Appointing Authority of the General Interview Board :
Respective Appointing Authority
7.2.5.4 Structured Interview : Not applicable
7.2.6 Method of Calling Applications: Applications shall be called by publishing a notice in the Government
Gazette or publishing public notices or notices in the web site.
7.3 Recruitment under Limited Stream
7.3.1 Recruitment Grade :
7.3.1.1 T raining Grade (For a training period of two years)
(a) Educational Qualifications :
Shall have passed G . C. E. (O/L) examination in six subjects (06) with credit passes for
Sinhala/Tamil/English, Mathematics and Science at not more than two sitting.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'09'01
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.09.2015
7A
(b) Experience :
Shall have obtained an active and satisfactory 10 years service experience in a permanent,
departmental post of a primary or above service category in the relevant field
7.3.1.2 T raining Grade : (For a training period of one year)
(a) Educational Qualification :
Shall have passed G. C. E. (O/L) examination in six subjects (06) with credit passes
for Sinhala/Tamil/English, Mathematics and Science at not more than two sitting.
(b) Professional Qualifications :
A 5 years experience in the relevant field along with a professional qualification
mentioned in 7 .2.1.2 (b)
(c) Experience :
Shall have obtained an active and satisfactory 10 years service experience in a permanent,
departmental post of a primary or above service category in the relevant field
7.3.1.3 Grade III (Direct Recruitments)
(a) Educational Qualifications :
Shall have passed G. C. E. (O/L) examination in six subjects (06) with credit passes
for Sinhala/Tamil/English Mathematics and Science at not more than two sitting.
(b) Professional Qualifications
Shall have obtained a professional qualification relevant to the post mentioned in
7.2.1.3 (b).
(c) Experience :
Shall have obtained an active and satisfactory 05 years service experience in a permanent,
departmental post of a primary or above service category in the relevant field
7.3.2 Physical Fitness :
Shall have the physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of the island and to perform the
duties of the post
7.3.3. Other
I. Shall have been confirmed in permanent appointments.
II. Shall have completed at least a satisfactory service period of 05 years, in a permanent
appointment in public service immediately preceding the prescribed date and shall have certified
the same by the Head of the Department

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'09'01
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.09.2015
8A
III. Officers are deemed to have possessed qualifications to sit the written test for recruitment to
the service only if the officer has satisfied all the qualifications in each and every aspect, as at
the date prescribed in the notification for calling applications.
7.3.4 Method of Recruitment
Recruitments shall be made on the results of a written examination and a general interview. Qualified
candidates shall be selected by calling for a general interview, a number of candidates equivalent to
the number of recruitments expected to be made on the order of the merit determined on the aggregate
of marks secured at the examination by the candidates who have passed the written examination
7.3.4.1 W ritten Test
Subjects Maximum marks Pass mark
Intelligence test 100 40%
Subject related Technological 100 40%
Test
(Syllabus shall be mentioned in the relevant Scheme of Recruitment)
7.3.4.1.1 Conducting Authority :
Appointing Authority shall mentioned authority for conducting the written
examination in each Scheme of Recruitment
7.3.4.2 Professional Test : Not applicable
7.3.4.3 Expected objectives to be achieved from Gen eral Interview
Marks shall not be allocated and only verification of qualifications shall be made
7.3.4.3.1 Appointing Authority of the General Interview Board :
Respective Appointing Authority
7.3.4.4 Structured Interview : Not applicable
7.4 Recruitment under the Order of Merit : Not applicable
7.5 Recruitment to Grade III of End of Training Period
(a) Recruitment to Grade III shall be made on submission of the certificate issued by the relevant
institution proving that the officer has passed the examination after successful completion of training
period mentioned in the Scheme of Recruitment , by the candidates who have been enrolled to the
Training Grade under Open or Limited stream.
(Relevant institution shall issue a proper certificate at the end of training period. The institution
which issues the certificate shall be mentioned in the Scheme of Recruitment.)
(b) An opportunity shall be given for apprentices who are unable to pass the examination which is held
at the completion of training, to get their training period extended for not more than 06 months.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'09'01
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.09.2015
9A
Service of the apprentices who applied under open stream and failed from the examination which is
held again at the end of the extended training period shall be terminated. Apprentices who applied
under limited stream shall be released to their previous posts.
(c) In case where there are certain special posts for which it is necessary to obtain a training period
over two years, recruitments shall be made to Grade III at the end of training on the basis of granting
one salary increment for each year of such additional training period and further the additional
training period shall be counted for the period considered for promotion to Grade II
(d) Apprentices selected under limited stream shall remain further on the salary scale received
previously even in the training grade. However, they shall be paid an annual, allowance equivalent to
the initial salary increment of the recruitment grade of the Sri Lanka Technological Service until
they pass the examination held by the department at the end of the training period. An officer who
follows the training period successfully shall be placed in the second year on the higher salary step
of the salary scale which he receives so far. In the meantime the allowance shall be paid continuously.
On passing the examination after completion of training period satisfactorily, salary conversion
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the Establishments Code revised by Public
Administration Circular No: 07/2000 dated 02.03.2000.
(e) If the training period of the applicants, who are included into the Training Grade of a certain post
under open or limited stream, on the requirement of the relevant Ministry/ Department as the case
may be, relevant appointing authorities should take actions to obtain the approval of the Public
Service Commission and to include the training period in each recruitment procedure.
08. Efficiency Bar  Examination :
8.1
Efficiency Bar At what point the limit for Nature of the Efficiency Bar
passing  the Efficiency Bar W ritten/Professional
expires (number of years) test/Certificate courses/ other
1st Efficiency Bar Before lapse of three (03)  years
from  recruitment to Grade III  of
Sri  Lanka Technological Service
2nd Efficiency Bar Before lapse of three (03) years
from  promotion to  Grade  II
of  Sri Lanka  Technological
Service
3rd  Efficiency Bar Before lapse of five (05) years
from promotion to Grade I of
Sri  Lanka  Technological  Service
8.2 Time Frame of the Efficiency Bar Examination : shall be conducted twice a year.
8.3 Authority for conducting Efficiency Bar Examinations:
(a) 1st and 2nd Efficiency Bar Examinations shall be conducted by Commissioner General of
Examinations on behalf of the Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs
(b). 3rd Efficiency Bar Examination shall be a three month course on Management conducted by an
institution approved by the Secretary of the Public Administration and Home Affairs
Written test
(Schedule 01)
Written test
(Schedule 02)
Three months training
course  on management

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'09'01
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.09.2015
10A
Note: The of ficers who are being promoted to Grade I of Sri Lanka Technological Service as at the date in which
this minute shall be effective, shall be exempted from 3rd Efficiency Bar Examination.
09. Language Proficiency  :
Language Pr oficiency to be satisfied
Official Language Officers, who have been appointed to service in a language
other than any  official  language,  shall  acquire relevant
proficiency  in  official  language within the probation
period.
Other Official Language Proficiency at the relevant level shall  be  acquired  as
per Public  Administration Circular 01/2014 and  other
circulars issued subsequently.
Link Language Shall have obtained a credit pass for English language at
G .C.E. Ordinary Level before lapse of 05 years In Grade III.
10. Grade Promotions  :
10.1 Promotion from Grade III to Grade II 10.1.1 On Average Performance
10.1.1.1 Qualifications to be Satisfied
I. Shall have been confirmed in appointment.
II. Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service for at least ten (10) years in
Grade III of the service category and earned ten (10) salary increments
III. Shall have proved a performance at satisfactory level or above during the period of ten (10)
years preceding the date of promotion as per the approved performance appraisal procedure.
IV . Shall have completed a satisfactory service of five (05) years immediately preceding the
date of promotion.
V . Shall have obtained the prescribed level of proficiency In other official language.
VI. Shall have passed the first Efficiency Bar Examination on due date.
10.1.1.2 Method of Promotion
When officers who have satisfied the qualifications make a request to the Appointing Authority as
per the specimen form, promotion to Grade II shall be made by the Appointing Authority after
verification of qualifications to be effective from the qualifying date.
10.2 Promotion from Grade II to Grade I
10.2.1 On Average Performance
10.2.1.1 Qualifications to be Satisfied
(I) Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service for ten (10) years in
Grade II of the service category and earned ten (10) salary increments.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'09'01
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.09.2015
11A
(II) Shall have proved a satisfactory period of service within five (05) years immediately
preceding the date of promotion.
(III) Shall have proved a performance at satisfactory level or above during the period of ten
(10) years preceding the date of promotion as per the approved performance appraisal
procedure.
(IV) Shall have passed the second efficiency bar examination on due date.
10.2.1.2 Method of Promotion :
When officers who have satisfied the qualifications make a request to the Appointing Authority as
per the specimen form, promotion to Grade I shall be made by the Appointing Authority after
verification of qualifications to be effective from the qualifying date.
Note:- When promotions are made on average performance, the date of promotion of the officers who fail
the efficiency bar examination on the prescribed date shall be delayed for a period equivalent to the
delayed period of time obtained to pass the examination.
10.3 Recruitment to Special Grade
10.3.1 Ratio of Recruitment
Stream Percentage
Limited 40%
Service Experience and Merit 60%
Note:- When recruitments are made to special grade, the vacancies shall be calculated as at 31st
December of the previous year.
1. At the instances where the approved number of posts is 04, the percentage of recruitment under
Limited competitive examination shall be 25%, and the percentage of recruitment under Seniority
and Merit shall be 75%. At the instances where the approved number of posts are 3, the percentage
of recruitment under the above Limited competitive examination shall be 33.33%, and the percentage
of recruitment under Seniority and Merit shall be 66.66%
II. At the instances where the approved number of posts is below 3, filling of vacancies in the posts
shall be made on Service Experience and Merit of the officer.
10.3.2 Recruitment under Limited Competitive Examination
10.3.2.1 Qualifications to be Satisfied :
(I) Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service for five (05) years in
Grade I of the Supervisory Management Assistants- Technical service (MN-03) category
and earned due five (05) salary increments.
(II) Sha ll have completed a satisfactory service of five (05) years immediately preceding
the date of promotion.
(III) Shall have passed the third efficiency bar examination on due date.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'09'01
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.09.2015
12A
10.3.2.2 Method of Promotion
Promotions to special grade shall be made by the appointing authority on the order of merit
of the examination and the number of vacancies after verifying that the other qualification
have also been fulfilled by those who have passed on results of the examination for promotion
to special grade conducted by an interview board appointed by Public Service Commission.
(Examination for promotion to special grade- schedule 03)
                Note: I. The results of the Limited Competitive Examination for recruitment to special grade shall
strictly be made applicable to fill the number of vacancies existing in the year which is relevant
for the examination)
II. If the examination could not be held annually, the results of the examination held in later year
shall be applied for the filling of vacancies existed in each year. For this purpose the officers,
who have become qualified as at the dates on which the posts have fallen vacant in each year,
shall be selected on the order of the marks and the date of promotion for special grades shall
be the date of the examination.
10.3.3 Recruitment on Seniority and Merit
10.3.3.1 Qualifications to be Satisfied
(I) Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service for Six (06) years in
Grade I of the Supervisory Management Assistants- Technical service (MN-03) category
and earned due Six (06) salary increments.
(II) Sh all have completed a satisfactory service of five (05) years immediately preceding
the date of promotion.
(iii) Shall have proved a performance at satisfactory level or above level during the period of
six (06) years immediately preceding the date of promotion as per the approved
performance appraisal procedure.
(iv) Shall have passed the third efficiency bar examination on due date.
10.3.3.2 Method of Recruitment
Promotions to special grade shall be made by the appointing authority after verifying by an
examination for verification of qualifications, which is conducted by the appointing authority,
that the officer has satisfied all other requirements and on the order of the merits obtained at
the structured interview, for which marks are allocated for seniority and merit, which is
conducted by an interview board appointed by Public Service Commission and on the number
of vacancies.
(Structured interview for promotion to special grade - Schedule 04)
11. Appointment to Posts  - Provisions shall be included in each Scheme of Recruitment depending on the
requirement
12. Conditions outside the general conditions indicated in the procedural rules of the Public Service
Commission.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'09'01
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.09.2015
13A
12.1 Probation Period and Confirmation in Service
I. An officer recruited to Grade III of the service on the results of the open competitive examination
shall be subjected to a probation period of three years. He/She shall be confirmed in the service at
the end of the probation period if he/she has passed the first efficiency bar examination, satisfied
the requirement of acquiring the proficiency in official language and further his/her work and conduct
were satisfactory.
II. Officers recruited to Grade III on the results of the limited competitive examination shall be subjected
to an acting period of one year. He/She shall be confirmed in the service at the end of such acting
period if his/her work and conduct were satisfactory during the period.
12.2 Promotion in Professional Services
I. A certain percentage of the carder in professional services in departments shall be, reserved for the
promotions of the officers in Grade I of Sri Lanka Technological Service who are selected from an
examination
II . These paths shall be extended for the posts in Technological Service for which such promotional
paths are not available. For this purpose it is expected that action shall be taken by the Head of
Departments to create at least one departmental post parallel to professional services mentioned in
Section 12.2.1
12.3 All the officers shall acquire skills and proficiencies as determined by the government from time to
time.
13. Interpretations outside the interpretations mentioned in the Procedural Rules of ~ublic Service
Commission
I. The term “Gazette” shall mean the gazette published by the Democratic Socialist  Republic of Sri
Lanka.
II. The term “Service Minute” shall mean the Minute of the Sri Lanka Technological Service.
III. The term “Effective Date” shall mean the date on which this minute comes in to effect.
IV . “Service” or “S.L.T.S” shall mean the Sri Lanka Technological Service.
V . “Apprentice” shall mean a person who has been recruited under provisions of this Minute and is in Training
Grade.
VI. “Period of Active Service” shall mean the actual period served by the officer engaged in the duties assigned
to him and drawing the salary attached to his post. However, all the periods on No Pay other than Maternity
Leave approved by the government shall not be counted for the period of active service.
14. Provisions for Absorption  :
I. These provisions shall strictly be applied to the officers who are in Sri Lanka Technological Service as at
the effective date of this procedure. All the officers who receive salaries under salary scale MN-03-
2006-A provided by Public Administration Circular No:06/2006 and circulars issued consequently on
prescribed dates shall be absorbed in the following manner subjected to the provisions in Section 4,
Chapter VII of the Establishments Code

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'09'01
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.09.2015
14A
II. Period of service shall be calculated based on the date of appointment to each post or grade. However, the
date of salary increment of the relevant officer shall not be changed due to this absorption and that shall
be applied without any change as the increment date existed before the absorption. Further, the officer
shall not be placed on the next higher salary step as per section 4.4 , chapter VII of the Establishments
Code due to becoming the salary step received by the relevant officer corresponding to new salary step.
14.1 The absorption of officers, serving as at the effective date of this Minute, to Sri Lanka Technological
Service, under the new service minute shall be made in the following manner.
14.1.1 Absorption to Grade III of the Service
Officers in Segment (b) of Class II of the Sri Lanka Technological Service as at the effective date
14.1.2 Absorption to Grade II of the Service
Officers in Segment (a) of Class II of the Sri Lanka Technological Service as at the effective date
14.1.3 Absorption to Grade I of the Service
Officers in Class I of the Sri Lanka Technological Service as at the effective date
14.1.4 Absorption to Special Grade of the Service
Officers in Special Grade of the Sri Lanka Technological Service as at the effective date
15. Interim Provisions :
The interim provisions shall be effective up to 01.06.2018. When the officers, who are absorbed to Grade III
and II as at the effective date of this service minute, are promoted, sections 7.1 (a) and 7.2 (a) of Sri Lanka
Technological Service Minute published in the Gazette extraordinary no 1426/34 dated 06.01.2006 shall be
made applicable during the interim period. ( These interim provisions shall be applicable strictly for the officers
recruited under Sri Lanka Technological Service Minute No 1424/34 dated 06.01.2006 which was in effect
before the implementation of new service minute. Other conditions shall be the conditions in new service
minute)
16. Other  :
16.1 General conditions in Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission published in the Gazette
extraordinary No 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009 and the provisions of the Establishments Code shall be
applicable for each appointment.
16.2 Matters not provided for in the Minute shall be determined by the Public Service Commission
16.3 In case of an inconsistency among the matters In Sinhala, Tamil and English versions, the Sinhala version
shall come into force.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'09'01
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.09.2015
15A
SCHEDULE 01
1. Name of the Examination - First Efficiency bar examination for officers in Grade III of Sri Lanka
Technological Service
2. Particulars of the Examination : This Examination shall consist of 02 questions papers.
Question paper Duration T otal Marks Pass marks
Establishments 02 hours 100 40%
Code  and
Procedural rules of
Public  Service
Commission
Financial 02 hours 100 40%
Regulations
3. Authority for conducting the examination
The Commissioner General of Examinations on behalf of the Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs.
4. Time frame of the Examination :
The examination shall be held twice a year
5. Syllabus of the Examination
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
Establishments Code and Procedural rules Procedural  rules of  Public  Service
of Public Service Commission Commission
Chapters VIII, XII, XIII, XIV , XIX of
Establishments Code
Financial Regulations Chapter 1
From 01 to 68 of Financial Regulations
Chapter III
From 124 to 147 of Financial Regulations

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'09'01
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.09.2015
16A
SCHEDULE 02
1. Name of the Examination - Second Efficiency bar examination for officers in Grade II of Sri Lanka Technological
Service
2. Particulars of the Examination : This Examination shall consist of 02 questions papers.
Question paper Duration T otal Marks Pass marks
Establishments 02 hours 100 40%
Code
Financial 02 hours 100 40%
Regulations
3. Authority for conducting the examination
The Commissioner General of Examinations on behalf of the Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
4. Time frame of the Examination :
The examination shall be held twice a year
5. Syllabus of the Examination
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
Establishments Code Chapters XV, XVI, XXIII, XXIV , XXV, XXVII, XXVIII,
XXX, XXXIII, XLVII, XLVIII of  Establishments Code
Financial Regulations Chapter V1
From 315 to 396 of Financial Regulations
Chapter XIII
From 685 to 775 of Financial Regulations

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'09'01
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.09.2015
17A
SCHEDULE 03
1. Name of the Examination - Limited Competitive Examination for promotion of officers in Grade I of Sri Lanka
Technological Service (to special grade)
2. Particulars of the Examination :
Question paper Duration T otal Marks Pass marks
Aptitude Test 01 hours 100 40%
Management 03 hours 100 40%
3. Authority for conducting the examination
The Commissioner General of Examinations on behalf of the Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
4. Time frame of the Examination :
The examination shall be held once a year as per requirement
5. Syllabus of the Examination
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
Management I. Principals of Management
II. Management Functions
Planning
Decision making
Process of decision making
Organization
Staffing
Directing
Motivation process
Leadership
Control
Process of controlling policies
III. Participatory Management
IV . Management environment
V . Case study
Aptitude test A test designed to assess as to whether the
officer has acquired knowledge skills and
attitudes required for the fulfillment of tasks
entrusted to him/her In an efficiency beyond
the performance at average level and
whether the officer displays competency
I the application of the above.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'09'01
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.09.2015
18A
SCHEDULE 04
1. Name of the Examination: Structured interview for promotion of officers in Grade I of Sri Lanka Technological
Service
2. Fields to which the marks are allocated at the interview and the Marks
Main areas to which marks Maximum Marks Pass Marks
are allocated
Service Experience 50 N/A
Active and satisfactory period
of service beyond the relevant
basic qualification
Merit 45
(Merit shall be determined
based on the marking scheme
approved by the Public Service
Commission depending on the
situation.
Merit proved at the 05
interview
Total 100
3. Authority by which the interview is conducted: An interview board appointed by Public Service Commission
4. Time frame of the Structured Interview : Once a year as per requirement.
09-349
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.