

<!-- page 1 -->

wxl 2"107 - 2019 ckjdß ui 18 jeks isl=rdod - 2019'01'18
No. 2,107 -  FRIDAY , JANUARY 18, 2019
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
    PAGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors                               ...    ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... —
Other Appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notiﬁ cations ... 2
By-Laws ... —
Posts - Vacant ...     —
          PAGE 
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
69
N.B.—   (i)  Part IV (A) of the Gazette No.2,106 of 11.01.2019 was not published. 
 (ii) The List of Jurors in Badulla Jurisdiction Areas in Year 2019, has been published in Part VI of this Gazette in Sinhala, 
Tamil/English Laguages.
 
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
 All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Noti ﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving  adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notiﬁ cation will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
 All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 08th February, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 25th January, 2019. 
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GANGANI LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
B 81487 - 5,403 (01/2019)

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'18
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –18.01.2019
70
Provincial Councils Notiﬁ cations
AUTHORIZATION
I do hereby grant permission to the Chief Secretary and the Accounting Ofﬁ cers of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council to 
spend a sum of Rupees Nine Billion Eight Hundred and Ninety ﬁ ve Million (Rs. 9,895,000,000/-) out of the Sabaragamuwa 
Provincial Council Fund, which is estimated for the expenses of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council for the period that 
starts on 01
st of January, 2019 and end on 30th of April, 2019, by virtue of powers vested in me under Section 27 (a) of 
the Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987, as the term of the 06 th Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka ended on 26th September, 2017.
   This permission will be valid till 30 th April, 2019 or upto the date that expires 3 months from the date of summoning 
the 07th Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council or from the date re-start the functions of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council 
which occurs ﬁ rst.
   As the details regarding treasury grants and revenue targets for the year 2019, which are necessary to annual ﬁ nancial 
statement were not received to the provincial council, this estimate has been prepared by nature of a vote on account. This 
permission is limited to spend upto the maximum revenue collected and imprests for treasury grants to be received during 
ﬁ rst four months in the year 2019, expecting that the grants and revenue targets will be given by the treasury in due course.
 N
ILUKA EKANAYAKA,
 Honourable Governor- Sabaragamuwa Province.
30th day of November, 2018.
AUTHORIZATION
I do hereby grant permission to the Chief Secretary and the Accounting Of ﬁ cers of the Sabaragamua Provincial Council 
to bear the expenses stated in the Second (II) Schedule, which is estimated for the Advance Account Activities of the 
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council for the period that starts on 01
st of January, 2019 and end on 30th April, 2019, by virtue of 
powers vested in me under Section 27 (a) of the Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987, as the term of the 06th Sabaragamuwa 
Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka ended on 26th September, 2017.
    This permission will be valid till 30 th April, 2019 or upto the date that expires 03 months from the date of summoning 
the 07th Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council or from the date re-start the functions of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council, 
which occurs ﬁ rst.
 NILUKA EKANAYAKA,
 Honourable Governor- Sabaragamuwa Province.
30
th day of November, 2018.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'18
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –18.01.2019
71
 1.  I do hereby grant permission unto the Chief Secretary and the Accounting Of ﬁ cers of the Province 
to spend Rupees Nine Billion Eight Hundred and Ninety Five Million (Rs. 9,895,000,000/-) which 
estimated for the services of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council for the period of four months 
beginning on 01st January, 2019 and ending on 30
th April, 2019, by virtue of powers vested in 
me under section 27 (A) of Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987 as the term of the Sixth 
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council ended on 26
th September, 2017.
 2. (1)  Without prejudice to any other law authorizing any expenditure of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial 
Council which estimate will be Rupees Nine Billion Eight Hundred and Ninety Five Million (Rs. 
9,895,000,000/-) for the service of the period beginning on 01
st January 2019 and ending on 30 th 
April, 2019, in this order referred to as the ''four months period'' shall be met.
 (a) For payments which are hereby authorized to be made out of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial 
Council fund or any other fund or monies of or at the disposal of the Sabaragamuwa 
Provincial Council and, 
 (b)  For the proceeds of loans which are hereby authorized to be raised, within the province of 
Sabaragamuwa  for and on behalf of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council. The sum of 
Rupees Nine Billion Eight Hundred and Ninety Five Million (Rs.9,895,000,000/-) here in 
before referred to may be duly expended as speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst schedule to this order.
 (2)  The provision of Subsection (1) of this section shall have effect without prejudice to the provisions 
of any other written law authorizing the raising of loans for and on behalf of the Sabaragamuwa 
Provincial Council.
3. (1). The receipts of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council during the ﬁ rst four months of ﬁ nancial 
year 2019 from each activity speciﬁ ed in column (iv) of the second schedule to this order shall be 
credited to the account of such activity, the aggregate of receipts so credited shall be not less than 
the minimum limit speciﬁ ed in the corresponding entry in column (vi).
SABARAGAMUWA  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Revenue- Expenditure Estimates
from 01.01.2019 upto 30.04.2019
PREPARED TO SPEND OUT OF THE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL FUND UPON THE 
PERMISSION OF THE HONOURABLE GOVERNOR, UNDER SECTION 27 (A) OF THE
PROVINCIAL COUNCIL ACT, No. 42 OF 1987.
SABARAGAMUWA PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
Granting permission by virtue of powers vested in me under section  27 (A) of Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987 as 
the term of the Sixth Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka ended on 26th September, 2017.
AN order to provide for the services during 01st day of January to 30th day to April of year 2019, to authorize the raising of 
loans within the province of Sabaragamuwa for the purpose of such service,  to make ﬁ nancial provisions in respect of certain 
activities of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council during that more months, to enable the payment, by way of advances 
out of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council fund or any other fund or monies of, or at the disposal of, the Sabaragamuwa 
Provincial Council fund, and to make provision for matters connected with or incidental to the aforesaid matter.
BE it enacted by me, the Governor of the Sabaragamuwa Province of the Democratic Soclialist Republic of Sri Lanka as 
follows.
Granting 
permission
Appropriation for 
ﬁ rst four months of 
the ﬁ nancial year 
2019.
Financial Provision 
in respect of certain 
activities of the 
Sabaragamuwa 
Provincial Council 
for ﬁ rst four 
months of the year 
2019

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'18
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –18.01.2019
72
4.  The expenditure incurred by the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council, during ﬁ rst four months of the 
ﬁ nancial year 2019 each activity speciﬁ ed in column (iv) of the second schedule to this order shall 
be paid out of the receipt of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council from such expenditure shall not 
exceed the maximum limit speciﬁ ed in the corresponding entry in column (v) of that schedule.
5.   The debit balance, outstanding at the end of ﬁ rst four months duration of the ﬁ nancial year 2019 
of any activity speci ﬁ ed in column (iv) of the second schedule to this order shall not exceed the 
maximum limit speciﬁ ed in the corresponding entry in column (vii) of that schedule, and the total 
liabilities of that activity at the end of that ﬁ nancial year shall not exceed the maximum limit 
speciﬁ ed in the corresponding entry column (viii) of that schedule.
6.   Whenever at any time during ﬁ rst four months of the ﬁ nancial year 2019, the receipts of that 
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council from any activity speci ﬁ ed in column (iv) of the second 
schedule to this order are insuf ﬁ cient to meet the expenditure incurred by the Sabaragamuwa 
Provincial Council on such activity, the minister may, from time to time, by order direct that such 
sums may deem necessary to meet such expenditure shall be payable by way of advances out of 
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council fund or any other fund or monies of or at the disposal of, the 
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council, so however that the aggregate of the sums to advances does not 
exceed the maximum limit of entry in column (v) of that schedule. Any sums to advanced in respect 
of such activity shall be refunded to the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council fund in such manner as 
the Governor may by order direct.
7. (1)   Any money which, by virtue of the provisions of the ﬁ rst schedule to this order, have been allocated 
to recurrent expenditure under any programme appearing under any head speciﬁ ed in that schedule 
but have not been expended or may likely to be unexpended, may be transferred to the allocation of 
recurrent expenditure or capital expenditure under any other programme within that head by order 
of the Chief Secretary to the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council or any other ofﬁ cer authorized by 
him.
    (2)  Any money allocated to capital expenditure under any programme appearing under any head 
speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst schedule to this order shall be transferred out of that programme or project 
only by order of the Chief Secretary of Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.
8. (1)  That the receipts from taxes and other sources will be less than the amount anticipated to ﬁ nance 
authorized expenditure. or;
    (2)  That amount originally appropriated for a particular purpose or purposes are no longer required;
   He may with the approval of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council, withdraw in whole, or in part, 
any amounts previously released for expenditure under the authority of a warrant issued by him 
from the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council fund or from any other fund or monies of or at the 
disposal of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.
9. The Governor may, on or before 31
st May, 2020, by order, vary or alter.
 (a).  Any of the maximum limits speci ﬁ ed in column (v), column (vii) and column (viii) of the 
second schedule to this order.
 (b).  The maximum limits speci ﬁ ed in column (vi) of the second schedule to this order.
Advance 
payments out 
of Provincial 
Council fund or 
any other fund 
for the activities 
mentioned in 
the paragraph 
3 during ﬁ rst 4 
months of the 
year 2019.
Power to transfer 
unexpected 
monies allocated 
to recurrent 
expenditure 
to another 
allocation within 
some programme 
or to another 
programme under 
the same head of 
expenditure
Power of 
Governor to vary 
the maximum 
and minimum 
limits speciﬁ ed 
in the second 
schedule to this 
order

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'18
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –18.01.2019
73
  No order made under this section shall have effect unless it has been approved by the Governor.
  Any such order shall, if so expressed therein be deemed to have had effect from such date prior to the date of making 
such order as may be speciﬁ ed therein.
10.   The Governor may amend the second schedule to this order, by adding to the appropriate columns of that schedule 
any activity and,
 (a).  All or any of the maximum limits relating to such activity.
 (b).  The minimum limit relating to such activity.
11.   This permission will be valid till 30 th April, 2019 or upto the date that expires 03 months from the date of summoning 
the  07th Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council or from the date re-start the functions of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial 
Council which occurs ﬁ rst.
01-374
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.