

<!-- page 1 -->

YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Important  notIce  regardIng  acceptance  of  notIces 
for  publIcatIon  In  the  Weekly  “gazette”
Attention is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.   
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  10th February  2023 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 27th  January,  2023.
electronic transactions act, no. 19 of 2006 - section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the 
Gazette.”  
 GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2023.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
the gazette of the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka
   
 
Land Settlement notices :- ... —
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... 20
Land Redemption Notices ... ––
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 20
(published by authority)
part III — lands
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
 wxl 2"316 - 2023 ckjdß ui 20 jeks isl=rdod - 2023'01'20                             
 No. 2,316 - FRiDAy ,  JANUARy  20, 2023
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                
19 -   B 82420 - 353 (01/2023)
Page Page

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'20
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 20.01.2023
20
land development ordinance notices
notIce  for  cancellatIon of the grants, Issued under   the   sub sectIon (4) 
of sectIon 19 of the land development ordInance (sectIon 104)
tHENNAKON Mudiyanselage Samarathunga Bandara Thennakon Land Commissioner (inter Province) of the Divisional 
Secretariat at Kantale in the District of Trincomalee in Eastern Province, hereby inform that the actions are being taken to 
cancel the grant given in terms of Section 19(4) of the Land Development Ordinance by the H/E President on 1997 February 
03 bearing No. Tri/Kan/Pra 5728 to Uthuvan Pathiranage Martin of Kantale, Layit Road, No. 46/A under Section 104 of the 
same Ordinance as it has been reported that there is no successor for the Land mentioned in below schedule owing to the 
reason either non availability of a person who legally entitles for the succession of he/she dislike for being a successor once  
person is available. in case any objection with this regard are available his should be informed me in written before 10.02.2023.
Schedule 
The portion of state land, containing in extent about 01 roods Village called Kanthale belongs to the Grama Niladhari Division 
of Bhathiyagama in kantale Pattu coming within the area of authorrity of Kantale Divisional Secretariat in the administrative 
District of Trincomalee as bounded by Government Land.
On the North by  : Path;
On the East by  :   Path;
On the South by  : indika Gunavardana's Land;
On the West by   : Dasasil Aramaya.
 T. M. S. B
andara Tennakoon,
 Land Commissioner
 (inter province),
 Kantale.
31st August, 2022.
01-172
miscellaneous  land notices
Land Commissioner General's No.: 4/10/39108.
Provincial Land Commissioner General's No. : EP/28/Les/
Bat/Chen/425.
notIfIcatIon  made under  state land 
regulatIon  no. 21(2)
iT is hereby notified that for the Religious Purpose, in the 
name of trustee board of Batticaloa Tamil School forum has 
requested on lease a state land containing in extent about 
10 Acres, depicted in the tracing and situated in the Village 
of Sarukkady which is belongs to the  Gramma Niladhari 
Division of Sarukkadi, coming within the area of authority 
of Eravoorpaththu Chenkalady Divisional Secretariat in the 
District of Batticaloa. 
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested.-.
 
On the North by   :  Land belongs to the State;
On the East by   :  Road;
On the South by   :  PP/BA/670;
On the West by  :  Land belongs to the State.
 The land  requested can be  given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to 
lease out the land subject to other Government approved 
conditions:

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'20
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 20.01.2023
21
(a)  terms of the  lease : Thirty (30) years (from the date 
30.06.2022 and onwards to 30 years)
  annual rent:  1/2% of the undeveloped value of the 
land as per as the valuation of the chief valuer for the 
year of 2022 as approved by the Hon. Minister.
  Premium:  Premium will not be charged.
(b) The lessees must, within one year (01) of the 
Commencement of the lease, develop the said land, in 
such a manner as to captivate the mind of the Divisional 
Secretariat ; 
 (c) The lessee must not use this land for any purpose other 
than for the Religious purpose;
(d)  This lease must also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional 
Secretary and other institutions;
 (e) The buildings constructed/ must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair;
(f)  Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure 
in the part of the lessees to substantiate within the specified 
time frame the purpose for which the land was obtained, 
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
(g)  No permission will be granted except the within family 
transactions will be granted for the sub-leasing or transfers 
until the expiry of 05 years from 30.06.2022; 
(h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse;
if acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within 
six (06) weeks of the date which this notice is published in 
Gazette to the effect that this land must not be given on lease, 
the land will be leased out as requested.
  
 S. g. d
inali ChaThuranga, 
 Assistant Land Commissioner 
 For Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department, 
"Mihikatha Medura", Land Secretariat,
No. 1200/6, 
Rajamalwatta Road, 
Battaramulla.
28th December, 2022.
01-168
PRiNTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRiNTiNG,  SRi  LANKA.