

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2015
713
713
wxl 1"913 - 2015 wfm%a,a ui 30 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2015'04'30
No. 1,913 – THURSDAY , APRIL 30, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... —
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 715
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 22nd May, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 08th May,
2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note.—   Inland Revenue (Amendment) Bill and Twenty Third Amendment to the Constitution Bill were published as supplements to the
Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 27, 2015.
N.B.— Part II of the Gazette No. 1,912 of 24.04.2015 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2015
714
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Dis qualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2015
715
FIRST  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR OFFICERS  IN  SRI  LANKA  ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE,  SRI
LANKA  ENGINEERING  SERVICE, SRI  LANKA  SCIENTIFIC SERVICE AND SRI  LANKA  ARCHITECTS'  SERVICE
SPECIAL  ENGLISH  LANGUAGE  TEST  FOR  OFFICERS  IN  SRI  LANKA  ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE  AND  THE
SECOND  LANGUAGE  TEST  FOR  OFFICERS  IN  ALL  THE  SERVICES -  2015 (I)
IT is hereby notified that First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Sri Lanka Eng ineering
Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service and Sri Lanka Architects' Service, Special English Language Test for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative
Service and the Second Language Test for the officers in all the Services 2015(I), shall be held in Colombo during weekends from 23rd May
2015 to 07th June 2015, by the Director General, Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration, under the supervision and direction
of Ministry of Public Administration, Local Government and Democratic Governance.
02. Efficiency Bar Examinations, Second Language Tests and the special English Language test which are due to be held in
respect of the above services shall be as follows:
Serial Name of the Examination Code
No.
1. 1 st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service SLAS1
2. 1 st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service SLES
3. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Scientific Service SLSS
4. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Architects' Service SLArS
5. Second Language Test for officers in all the services T
6. Special English Language Test for officers Sri Lanka Administrative Service E
7. Other services applicable for the above examination other
03. Officers may appear separately for each subject and at different occasions at their discretion. However, it is compulsory t o
pass the Efficiency Bar Examinations within the prescribed period.
04. This examination shall be conducted by the Director General of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration and the
candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by him with regard to conducting the examination. Candidates sha ll be
subjected to any punishment imposed by Disciplinary Authority for violation of these rules and regulations.
05. Applications for the examination can strictly be made online through www.slida.lk. the official web site of the Sri Lanka
Institute of Development Administration. It is possible to commence the filling of application by selecting the relevant examination from
the sub menu "Apply Online" at the right side of web site's main page.
Filling of applications is strictly allowed during the period from 8.00 a. m. on 30th April 2015 up to 12.00 midnight on 15th
May 2015.
06. Examination Fees .– The candidates appearing for the examination for the first time need not pay the examination fees. At
such occasions where a candidate, who has made application, has not sat for the examination even after issuing an admission by Sri Lanka
Institute of Development Administration that should be considered as a sitting for the examination.
For subsequent sittings, officers shall pay the examination fee in the following manner.
Rs. 1,000 shall be paid if it is applied for more than one subject of the First Efficiency Bar Examination and Second Language
Test for officers in all the services. Rs. 500 shall be paid if it is applied only for one subject of the First Efficiency Bar Examination and
Second Language Test.
Rs. 1,000 shall be paid if the officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service are sitting for one subject or more than one subject of
the First Efficiency Bar Examination and Second Language Test whilst sitting for the Special English Test for officers in Sri L anka
Administrative Service.
Rs. 500 shall be paid if the Officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service are sitting for only one subject of the First Efficie ncy
Bar Examination and Second Language Test and Rs. 500 shall be paid if the candidates are applying only for Special English Language Test.
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2015
716
Examination fee shall be paid by any post office all over the Island (except sub post offices) to be credited to the "SLIDA"
account and the number of the receipt issued shall be indicated in the relevant cages of the application. When filling the appl ication for
inland telegraphic money order (format 85) for payment of money to "SLIDA" account, "SLIDA" should be mentioned as the recipien t
In the meantime, the code name of the relevant examination shall be indicated at the place for the recipient's address. (The co de names
should be as mentioned in Section 02).
Further, when crediting money to the account, the application shall be filled including the name of the applicant as the remitter
and the N. I. C. number of the applicant at the space for the address of the remitter.
07. Getting Admissions for the First Efficiency Bar Examination for Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Sri Lanka Engineering
Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service and Sri Lanka Architects' Service and the Second Language Test for all the services and Special English
Test for the officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
When the application filled online is submitted, the candidate will be issued a confirmation number and the candidate should
keep it for further inquiries. Candidates will be able to get their admission card of the examination by way of following the i nstructions
indicated in the web page to which the candidate will have the access once the application duly perfected is sent online. The c andidate
should get a printed copy of the admission card and get his signature certified by the respective Head of the Department or a d eputy
officer authorized by the Head for the purpose. The admission card certified in this manner should be submitted to the Supervis or of the
examination. A copy of admission card certified as for that manner shall be submitted to the Head of the Department for the pur pose of
attaching to the personal file of the candidates.
Note.– The private address, place of work and the official address shall be clearly included when filling the application online.
08. Any clarification regarding the process for submitting applications can be obtained through the Telephone Number 011 -
5980236 of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration. Communication can be made through this line from 8.30 a.m up to 4 .30
p.m during working days of the week from 30th April 2015 up to 15th May 2015.
09. Heads of Departments should grant duty leave for the officers who possess admissions enabling them to sit for the
examination. If it is required to get their candidature confirmed, it can be done through the Telephone Number 011-5980236. Candidates
will not be paid traveling expenses for appearing for the examination.
10. Identity of Candidates.– Candidates shall be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose one of the following documents should be submitted to the supervisor.
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of  Persons,
(ii) A valid Passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion of the
Director General of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration.
11. The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English media. If it is found that a candidate has appeared for the
examination in a language medium that he/she is not entitled to, the candidature of such applicant shall be cancelled. A candidate shall not
be permitted to change the language medium indicated in the application form.
12. Scheme of Examination:  Subjects and the syllabus of each Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows. Duration of each
question paper is three (03 hours). At least forty (40) marks shall be obtained for each subject by a candidate to pass this Ef ficiency Bar
Examination.
12.1 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service (Appendix "G" of Sri Lanka
Administrative Service Minute published in the Gazette Extraordinary dated 23.12.2013)
The subjects of the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination are given below :
Serial Number Subjects Duration Subject Number
01 Law Constitutional  Law  and Administrative Law 03 hours 01 - I
The Legal Systems of Sri Lanka 03 hours 01 -II
Criminal Law & Evidence Law 03 hours 01 - III
02 Administration 03 hours 02
03 Economics and Sociology 03 hours 03
04 Financial Management and Procurement 03 hours 04
procedure in the Public Sector

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2015
717
12.1.1 Law (100 marks)
Three question papers based on the following :
First (1) question paper –
Constitutional Law and Administrative Law (Subject No. 01-I)   :
(i) The structure of the Constitution of Sri Lanka with historical development and the Second Republican
Constitution of 1978.
(ii) The Executive, President of the Republic, Prime Minister, Cabinet of Ministers and Public Service.
(iii) Administration of Justice.
(iv) Judicial control over Administration.
(v) Directive Principles of the State Policy and Fundamental Duties.
(vi) Delegated Legislation.
(vii) Liability of the State and the Public Authorities.
(viii) Fundamental Rights.
Second (II) Question Paper –
The Legal Systems in Sri Lanka (Subject No. 01-II)
(i) Administration of Justice
(ii) The Legal History of Sri Lanka
(iii) The Organization of the Courts
(iv) The Courts Ordinance (Chapter 6)
(v) Administration of Justice Act No. 44 of 1971.
Third (III) Question Paper -
Criminal Law and Evidence Law (Subject No. 01-III)
(i) The Penal Code
(ii) The Evidence Ordinance.
A candidate shall be required to obtain 35% of marks for each subject and an average of 40% of the total marks
allocated for the 03 subjects to pass the subject of law.
12.1.2 Administration (Subject No. 02-I - 100 marks)
A question paper based on the following:
(i) Office and Field Organization and Methods;
(ii) Following Chapters of the Establishment Code Chapters I, II, III, V , VI, VII, IX, XI, XXIII, XXV , XXVI, XXVII,
XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII and XLVIII), Procedural Rules of the Public Service
Commission.
12.1.3. Economics and Sociology (Subject No. 03 - 100 marks)
This question paper consists of two parts.
First (I) part - Economics
(i) Principles of Economics with special reference to the theories of Value, Production and Distribution;
(ii) Money, Production and Distribution ;
(iii) Economic background of Sri Lanka and policies, strategies and programmes relevant to economic development
with special reference to the Economic Structure of Sri Lanka.
Second (II) part - Sociology
(i) Social Structure, Organization and Functions;
(ii) Human Relationships and Groupings;
(iii) Kinship, Marriage and the Family;
(iv) Rural and Urban Society;
(v) Social Stratification and Differentiations;
(vi) Social Control;
(vii) Culture, Religion, Morals and Values.
A candidate shall be required to obtain at least twenty (20) marks for each part to pass the subject of Economics
and Sociology.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2015
718
12.1.4. Financial Management and procurement procedure in the Public Sector (Subject No. 04-100 marks)  :
A question paper based on the following,
(i) Financial Control in Sri Lanka;
y Constitutional Provisions Relating to Public Financial Management
y Parliamentary Control over Public Finance
y Meaning of Fund
y Consolidated Fund and its operation
y Object and methods of appropriation
y Contingencies Fund
y Other Funds and their Operation
y Government Revenue
y Powers and Functions of the Minister of Finance
y Powers and Functions of the Treasury
y Warrants and Imprest Authority
y Auditor General, his Powers and Functions
y Committee on Public Accounts
y Committee on Public Enterprises
(ii) Appointment of Accounting Officers, Chief Accounting Officers and Revenue Accounting Officers and their
Powers and Functions/accountability and nature of accountability.
(iii) Internal Audit
(iv) Public Expenditure Planning and Management;
y Identification of Organizational Objectives and Functions
y Identification of Government Policies, Goals Targets and Programmes
y Planning and Appraisal of Development Projects and Programmes and  Prioritization of them
y Formulation and Finalization of Annual Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure
(v) Making Changes of Approved Estimates
y Implementation of Virement Procedure
y Management of  Public Sector cadres and salaries
y Total Cost Estimates and revisions
y Supplementary Estimates
(vi) Losses and Waivers of Government Properties
(vii) Miscellaneous Accounting Matters
(viii) Delegation of Functions for Financial Management
(ix) Custody of Public Money and Bank Accounts Procedure
(x) Government Procurement Process
y Government Procurement Manual
y Government Procurement Guidelines
12.2 Fi rst Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service (Schedule "iii" of Sri Lanka
Engineering Service Minute, published in the Gazette Extraordinary dated 11.11.2013)
Subjects of the First Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows :
Serial No. Subject Duration Subject Number
01 Administration 03 hours 02 -II
02 Financial Systems 03 hours 05 - I
03 Department/establishment methodologies Since this examination is conducted by the Head
of the Institution, particulars in this regard are not
published in this notification
The minimum marks required to pass each subject is 40.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2015
719
12.2.1 Administration (Subject No. 02-II - 100 marks)  :
A question paper prepared in relation to the functions of Engineering Service based on V olume I of the
Establishments Code published in 1985 and all the chapters in V olume II of the Establishments Code published
in 1999 and the Procedural Rules of Public Service Commission (subjected to timely revisions).
12.2.2 Financial Systems (Subject No. 05-I - 100 marks)  :
A question paper prepared in relation to the functions of Engineering Service based on all the chapters in
Financial Regulations published in 1992 except Chapter IX and X and national procurement guidelines
(subjected to timely revisions)
12.3 First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Scientific Service (Appendix 4 of Sri Lanka Scientific
Service Minute, published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1,877/27 dated 28.08.2014)
First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Architects' Service (Appendix 4 of Sri Lanka Architects'
Service Minute, published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1,877/28 dated 28.08.2014)
Subject Duration Subject Number
Financial Systems 03 hours 05 -II
Administration 03 hours 02 - III
Departmental regulations Since this examination is conducted by the Head
of the Institution, particulars in this regard are not
published in this notification
12.3.1 Financial Systems (Subject No. 05-II - 100 marks)  :
A question paper based on the following :–
(i) Fiscal Governance in Sri Lanka :
y Constitutional Provisions Relation to Public Financial Management
y Parliamentary Control over Public Finance
y Definition of Fund
y Consolidated Fund and its operation
y Object and Methods of Appropriation
y Contingencies Fund
y Other Funds and their Operation
y Government Revenue
y Powers and Functions of the Minister of Finance
y Powers and Functions of the Treasury
y Warrants and Imprest Authority
y Auditor General, his powers and functions
y Committee on Public Accounts
y Committee on Public Enterprises
(ii) Appointment of Accounting Officer, Chief Accounting Officers and Revenue Accounting Officers and
their powers and role/accountability and nature of accountability.
(iii) Internal Audit
(iv) Public Expenditure Planning and Management :
y Identification of Organizational Objectives and Functions
y Identification of Government Policies, Goals, Targets and Programmes
y Planning and Appraisal of Development Projects and Programmes and Prioritization of them
y Formulation and Finalization of Annual Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure
(v) Making changes of Approved Estimates
y Implementation of Virement Procedure
y Management of Public Sector Cadres and Salaries
y Total Cost Estimates and Revisions
y Supplementary Estimates

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2015
720
(vi) Losses and waivers of government properties
(vii) Miscellaneous accounting matters
(viii) Delegation of functions for financial management
(ix) Custody of public money and Bank Accounts Procedure
(x) Government Procurement Process
y Code of Government Procurement
y Government Procurement Guidelines
Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for the subject.
12.3.2 Administration (Subject No. 02-III - 100 marks)  :
A question paper based on the following –
(i) Following chapters of the Establishment Code
Chapters I, II, III, V , VI, VII, IX, XI, XXIII, XXV , XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI,
XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII and XLVIII.
(ii) Procedural Rules of Public Service Commission published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1,589/30
dated 20.02.2009.
Note.– The Candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for the subject.
12.4 Second Language Test for all services  :
This test is conducted only twice on the approval of the Public Service Commission for the officers who were
required to pass the second language test at the First Efficiency Bar Examination as per the previous Service Minute
No. 1419/3 dated 14.11.2005, but have been unable to pass the same until now.
This examination consists of two parts as written test and oral test. Only the candidates who pass the written test
shall be called for the oral test corresponding to the relevant subject. A candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40%
marks to pass the written examination. The subjects of the written test are as follows :
Subject Duration Subject Number
Second Language Test - Sinhala 02 hours 6
Second Language Test - Tamil 02 hours 7
Second Language Test - English 02 hours 8
Note.– The second language in respect of an officer who becomes eligible to be appointed in Sinhala medium shall be
Tamil Language. The second language in respect of an officer who becomes eligible to be appointed in Tamil
Medium shall be Sinhala Language. In the meantime, an officer who becomes eligible to be appointed in English
Language is required to pass Sinhala and Tamil Language Tests.
12.5 Special English Language test for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service (Subject No. - 9)  :
This test is conducted only twice on the approval of the Public Service Commission for the officers who have not
English which was a subject of the First Efficiency Bar Examination under the previous Service Minute. This is the
subject - English held as a subject in the First Efficiency Bar Examination under previous service minute.
The syllabus for this subject shall be as follows –
(i) LISTENING AND SPEAKING SKILLS
The candidate should possess the ability to function effectively in the following Language functions :
y General Greetings and Introductions
y Giving and Getting information
y Advising, Suggesting and Expressing Opinions
y Describing Events and Situations
y Telephone skills
y Interviewing skills
y Meeting
y Listening and Note Taking skills

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2015
721
(ii) ENGLISH GRAMMER
A suitable level of proficiency on the following forms of grammar in the Spoken and the Written language is
expected from the candidate :
y Tense and Number
y Sentences (Simple/Compound/Complex/Compound Complex)
y Relative Clauses
y Reported Speech
y Adjectives and Adverbs
y Determiners
y Prepositions
(iii) WRITING SKILLS
The knowledge on the modern formats and styles of writing is tested in this area of study :
y Internal modes of Communication
y Formal correspondence skills
y Writing Descriptions/Explanations
y Summary writing skills
y Report Writing skills
y Meeting Minutes/ Agendas/Invitations
y Comprehension
(iv) READING SKILLS
Candidate's ability to comprehend a printed text, infer meaning and verbal/ written interpretation is expected.
y Reading and understanding the specific and general meaning of a printed text;
y Reading and Interpretation (verbal/written).
y Understanding the cohesion and coherence a passage.
Note.– A candidate shall be required to obtain at least of 40% marks for this subject.
13. The Timetable of the Examination is as follows :
Serial Name  of  the Subject Subject Date Time
No Examination No.
01 1
st  Efficiency  Bar Constitutional Law and 01-I 23.05.2015 09.00 -12.00
Examination for Administrative Law
, Officers in Sri  Lanka Legal Systems of Sri Lanka 01-II 23.05.2015 12.30 -15.30
Administrative Criminal Law and Evidence Law 01-III 24.05.2015 09.00 -12.00
Service Administration 02-I 24.05.2015 12.30- 15.30
Economics and Sociology 03 30.05.2015 09.00-12.00
Financial Management in the public 04 30.05.2015 12.30-15.30
sector and procurement process
02 1 st  Efficiency  Bar Financ ial Systems 05-I 31.05.2015 09.00-12.00
Examination  for Administration 02-II 31.05.2015 12.30-15.30
Officers in Sri Lanka
Engineering Service
03 1 st Efficiency Bar Financial  Systems 05-II 31.05.2015 09.00-12.00
Examination  for Administration 02-III 31.05.2015 12.30-15.30
Officers in Sri Lanka
Scientific Service
04 1 st  Efficiency  Bar Financ ial Systems 05-II 31.05.2015 09.00-12.00
Examination  for Administration 02-III 31.05.2015 12.30-15.30
Officers in Sri Lanka
Architects’ Service
05 Second Language Test Second Language Test - Sinhala 06 06.06.2015 11.15-01.15
for  officers  in all the Second Language Test - Tamil 07 06.06.2015 09.00-11.00
serivces Second Language Test - English 08 06.06.2015 01.30-03.30
06 English Language Special English 09 07.06.2015 09.00-12.00
Test for officers in
Sri Lanka Administrative
Service

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2015
722
14. 14.1 Exemptions from the requirement of passing the subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examination and Second Language
Test shall be made in the following manner.
Examination Subject Qualifications required to be exempted
1st Efficiency Bar Examination Law Should be a Barrister, Advocate in a Supreme Court,
for officers in Sri Lanka Graduate in Law from a University recognized by
Administrative Service University Grants Commission
Second Language Test Second Language Test - Sinhala (i) Shall have passed the first language or second
Second Language Test - Tamil language at G. C. E. (O/L)
(ii) Shall have successfully completed a basic or
higher language course of the Department
of Official Languages.
(iii) Shall have successfully completed a language
course of Department of Official Languages at
preliminary or higher level.
(iv) Should have passed the optional Sinhala or
Tamil subject at G. C. E. (O/L)
Second Language Test - English Shall have obtained an ordinary pass or above for
English language at G . C. E. (O/L)
Note 1.– Officers who have been recruited on or after 02.01.2012 are not required to sit for the Second Language Test
mentioned in this Examination Notification in order to acquire proficiency in other official language according to the
provisions of their letters of appointment, but they should acquire the proficiency in other official language as per the
provisions of Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014.
14.2 Even though as per the interim provisions 1.5(b) of Sri Lanka Administrative Service Minute, the officers were
required to pass the efficiency Bar Examination under the provisions of previous service minutes before the
effective date of (01.07.2012) of the above Service Minute, the officers who are unable to pass the same as at
31.12.2014 should complete the Efficiency Bar Examination by passing the subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examinations
held under the existing service minute which are conforming to the subjects of each Efficiency Bar Examination as
per the existed service minute.
Service Minute No. 1419/3 dated 14th of November 2005 The New Service Minute dated 23.12.2013
Administration Administration
First (1) Efficiency Bar Examination First (1) Efficiency Bar Examination
Financial Management in the Public Sector Second (II) Public Sector Financial Management and Procurement Process
Efficiency Bar Examination First (I) Efficiency Bar Examination
(a) Economics or Economics and Sociology First (I) Efficiency Bar Examination
(b) Sociology
First (I) Efficiency Bar Examination
Law Law
First (I) Efficiency Bar Examination First (I) Efficiency Bar Examination
English Link Language (English) Proficiency Second (II) Efficiency Bar
First (I) Efficiency Bar Examination Examination/Special English Language Test
15. Issuance of results: The results of all the candidates who have applied/ sat for this examination shall be published in the web
site of the Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils, Local Government and Democratic Governance. Publishing of t he
results in the website of the Ministry shall be considered as an issuance of results to the candidates, according to the Circul ar Number
SP/SB/1/13 and dated 13.10.2009 of Secretary to H. E. the president on the e-documents and e-communication. Accordingly, Heads of

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2015
723
Departments shall include the relevant copies of the results sheets of the examination published in the website of the Ministry  to the
personal files of the officers. It is not allowed to re scrutinize the results of the examination.
16. Any matter not referred to herein will be decided by Secretary to the Ministry of Public Administration, Local Government
and Democratic Governance.
17. In case of any inconsistency among Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this notification, the Sinhala notification shall prevail.
J. DADALLAGE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration, Local Government
and Democratic Governance.
Ministry of Public Administration,
Local Government and Democratic Governance,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
17th of May, 2015.
04–901
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.